A 64-year-old man presented in May 2006 due to facial dysesthesia and ptosis of the left eyelid and proptosis of the eyeball on the same side.
Personal history of high blood pressure under medical treatment, surgery for duodenal ulcer 20 years previously, and laryngeal polyposis on two occasions in 1993 and 1994.
Diagnosed with prostatic adenocarcinoma by ultrasound-guided biopsy in September 2005, with PSA of 794, alkaline phosphatases of 870, and a bone scan that showed multiple bone metastases. At that time, treatment was initiated using LH-RH analogues, flutamide and zoledromic acid 4 mg every 21 days for 6 months. The PSA nadir was reached in January 2006 with figures of 36-17 ng/ml.
Days before admission, he reported right facial numbness from the cheekbone to the upper lip, and simultaneously left eyelid ptosis along with ocular protrusion. He did not suffer from diplopia, facial or ocular pain.
On physical examination, the patient was conscious, oriented and cooperative, presenting left eyelid ptosis with protrusion of the eye on the same side, without apparent murmur, with paresis of the left III and VI pairs. He also had alterations in the sensitivity of the right half of the face, with the rest of the motor and sensory neurological examination being normal.
Among the complementary tests, the blood showed GGT of 86, alkaline phosphatase of 1145, and a PSA of 121-02.
Brain MRI and MRI angiography were performed, which demonstrated supratentorial ischemic lesions and an extraconal orbital mass attached to the left orbital roof that displaces and caudally encompasses the superior rectus muscle, while there is occupation of the left frontal sinus by a mass with the same characteristics. to the one described. The superior orbital rim remains intact with no apparent signs of infiltration. Fat obliteration of the superior extraconal fat causes inferior displacement and ocular proptosis. There is also an expansive mass located in the right maxillary sinus that breaks the lateral wall, extending towards soft tissues, causing interruption of the floor of the right orbit and invasion of the inferior extraconal space, displacing without invading it, the inferior rectus muscle. The cavernous sinuses were free.

In the thoraco-abdomino-pelvic computed tomography, a bone pattern with vertebral blastolytic infiltration was diagnosed, without visceral alterations.
He was diagnosed with metastasis of prostatic adenocarcinoma in the right maxillary sinus and left frontal sinus, with inferior right and superior left extraconal orbital involvement.
Local radiotherapy was discarded due to the risk of blindness. As treatment, flutamide was withdrawn, maintaining the lh-rh analogue. In June 2006, treatment was started with docetaxel 70 mg/m2 every 21 days, along with prednisone 10 mg per day. 6 cycles were completed until the end of September 2006.
A PSA nadir was reached in July 2006 with figures of 6-8 ng/ml, after the first two administrations of docetaxel. The patient reports decreased left ocular proptosis. 6 cycles are completed, with excellent tolerance. In October 2006, the PSA was 149 ng/ml, and the MRI images had not changed. Recently, in January 2007, treatment with docetaxel and prednisone was restarted.