We present the case of a 69-year-old patient with a history of arterial hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, suffering from terminal chronic renal failure of unknown etiology, with nephrogenic anemia treated with erythropoiesis-stimulating factors and secondary hyperparathyroidism. The residual urine output was around 200 ml. up to date.
In 2004 she began replacement treatment for kidney function through hemodialysis, subsequently entering the waiting list for a kidney transplant.
In January 2008, she received a kidney transplant from a deceased donor in the right iliac fossa. The postoperative period is correct except for two medical complications: development of diabetes mellitus that requires administration of insulin and toxicity due to calcineurin inhibitors, which means that initially the graft is not functional. She was discharged in the fifth week after the intervention with creatinine of 0.9 mg/dl and urine output of around 2000 ml. daily, receiving triple immunosuppressive therapy with prednisone, tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil.
She was readmitted two weeks later due to a condition consisting of significant edema in the right lower limb and deterioration of renal function, with a decrease in urine output and an increase in plasma creatinine concentration up to 2 mg/dl. She maintained a good general condition, with fever and hemodynamic manifestations absent.
The ECO demonstrates a large peri-graft collection, subsequently studied with CT, that extends from a level somewhat more cranial than the aortic bifurcation to the rectum, producing compression of the iliac vessels and displacement of the bladder.

Percutaneous puncture and pig-tail placement to drain the collection is followed by a great improvement in symptoms and biochemical analysis of the fluid obtained (creatinine 1.67 mg/dl, Na 146 mEq/l, K 4.3 mEq/ l) confirms the clinical suspicion of lymphocele.
Surgical treatment is indicated, carrying out, once the infection has been ruled out, marsupialization of the lymphocele into the peritoneal cavity by laparoscopic means. The patient was discharged from surgery on the third postoperative day, with normal and asymptomatic kidney function.
In the control CT scan after 14 days, the resolution of the lymphocele is confirmed.