We describe the case of a 91-year-old woman, type 2 diabetic on treatment with oral hypoglycemic agents, hypertensive, and previously dependent for physical activities of daily living after an ischemic stroke. The family reports that the patient has presented vomiting, hypogastric pain and hematuria in the last 15 days. Initially treated with fosfomycin-trometamol on an outpatient basis, the condition worsened in the last 48 hours, associated with jaundice and generalized abdominal pain, so she went to the Emergency Department.
The patient is conscious, oriented, afebrile and normotensive. The physical examination revealed the existence of jaundice and abdominal pain on deep palpation in the hypogastrium and right hypochondrium, with no signs of associated peritoneal irritation.
Biochemistry shows poor glycemic control (glucose: 571 mg/dL), data of cholestasis and cytolysis (total bilirubin: 10.9 mg/dL; direct bilirubin: 9.3 mg/dL; GOT: 57 U/L; GPT : 134 U/L; GGT: 806 U/L; alkaline phosphatase: 657 U/L) and acute renal failure (creatinine: 2.8 mg/dL). The blood count is practically normal (leukocytes: 11,990/mm3 with 75.9% neutrophils; hemoglobin: 15.5 g/dL; platelets: 217,000/mm3). Systematic urine analysis demonstrates the existence of glycosuria, microhematuria, and negative nitrites. The sediment is clearly pathological, showing abundant leukocytes and germs.
As complementary tests, a simple abdominal x-ray is performed, which shows the presence of ectopic air in the lower pelvis, probably in the bladder wall, suggestive of emphysematous cystitis, and an abdominal ultrasound, which confirms the presence of gas bordering the bladder wall. In addition, there is evidence of great dilation of the gallbladder and the intra- and extrahepatic bile duct with suspicion of choledocholithiasis. More than 100,000 CFU/ml of Escherichia coli sensitive to amoxicillin-clavulanate, cefuroxime-axetil, cefotaxime, piperacillin-tazobactam, gentamicin and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole are isolated by urine culture.

With the diagnoses of obstructive jaundice and emphysematous cystitis, admission was decided. Initially, intravenous antibiotic treatment with piperacillin-tazobactam, urinary catheterization, and strict control of blood glucose levels were instituted. An abdomino-pelvic CT was requested, which confirmed the diagnosis of emphysematous cystitis. Obstructive jaundice resolved after performing retrograde cholangiopancreatography and endoscopic sphincterotomy, with no stones found in the bile duct or dilation of the same in the control ultrasound.

After 5 days of intravenous antibiotic treatment, given the patient's good general condition, it was decided to discharge her from the hospital with oral antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid for 14 days, maintaining the urinary catheter. The control urine culture after treatment was negative. In the control abdomino-pelvic CT scan, no residual lesions were evident.