Male patient, 63 years old, mixed race, diabetic and inveterate smoker. He presented to the outpatient clinic due to pain in the right hypochondrium and low obstructive urinary symptoms consisting of 2-3 times nocturnal frequency, weak urinary stream and post-void dribbling. Total PSA was 2µg/ml, hemoglobin, ESR, hemochemistry and cituria were normal.
The general and abdominal physical examination were negative. The rectal examination revealed the presence of a prostate with a slight increase in size but with an irregular surface and stone consistency. A prostate biopsy was performed, which reported moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma.
In the abdominal ultrasound, a 6 cm diameter, heterogeneous and complex tumor was detected in the lower pole and middle part of the right kidney and another of similar size and ultrasound characteristics, in the upper pole and middle portion of the left kidney. A simple and contrast-enhanced renal CT was performed where the images reported in the ultrasound were confirmed, being hypodense, well-defined and both showing enhancement with the administration of iodinated contrast. No abdominal lymphadenopathy or tumor lesions were detected in neighboring organs. Chest x-ray and bone scan were negative for metastasis.

To establish the diagnosis of renal tumors, a laparoscopic approach was considered, but the patient has a large supra- and infraumbilical right paramedian scar, a sequel to laparotomy due to acute perforated appendicitis with generalized peritonitis, and this procedure was avoided to avoid possible complications.
It was then decided to perform a fine needle aspiration biopsy on the right kidney lesion and, after two attempts, the samples were not useful for diagnosis. After this, the patient refused to undergo any other investigative or therapeutic procedure for his kidney disease.
He was treated for prostate cancer with LHRH analogues and antiandrogens. After three months of treatment for prostate cancer, the evolving renal CT scan shows no variations with respect to the initial one. Currently the patient is asymptomatic and remains in good general condition.