We present a 66-year-old patient with a medical history of subtotal gastrectomy for gastric adenocarcinoma four years ago and arterial hypertension treated with spironolactone. The patient is referred by the Digestive Service evaluated for a long-term condition characterized by: anorexia, loss of 12 kilos in 6 months (current weight 42 kilos), hypochromic anemia and constipation. The physical examination revealed a large, firm, painless, mobile tumor that occupied three-quarters of the abdomen.

Given the history of gastric adenocarcinoma, the severe deterioration of general condition, constipation and anemia; The first clinical suspicion suggested was: ascites due to carcinomatosis, intestinal tumor obstruction or abdominal tumor. The analytical data reflected hemoglobin 7.5 gr/dl, 3.35 million red blood cells, 27% hematocrit, MCV 71.3, RDW 18, ESR 37 mm/h, CRP 0.7, PSA 2.6 ng/h. ml, creatinine 0.89 and urea 24. The liver and digestive tumor markers were unremarkable. Gastroscopy revealed an inflammatory polyp in the gastric stump, with no evidence of tumor recurrence. It was impossible to perform a colonoscopy due to intestinal displacement and the patient's intolerance. Abdominopelvic ultrasound revealed the presence of a cystic tumor with incomplete septa, with mixed anechoic content, which occupied the entire abdominal cavity. A left kidney with normal characteristics was identified, with no evidence of the presence of the right kidney.
Given the finding of a voluminous intra-abdominal cystic lesion, he was referred to our clinic where intravenous urography was performed with the result of right functional annulment, contralateral normofunction and a large mass effect that moved the digestive luminogram towards the left hypochondrium and an imprint on the right lateral wall of the cystogram. The CT scan revealed a large cystic mass measuring 29.5 cm x 27.5 cm x 16 cm, with multiple septa and well-defined walls that occupied almost the entire abdomen. A calcium image is identified in the theoretical renal pelvis area of ​​a hydronephrotic kidney with compression and displacement of all abdominal structures.

Given the suspected diagnosis of giant hydronephrosis secondary to stone obstructive uropathy, the possibility of percutaneous drainage and subsequent nephrectomy was evaluated. A simple right nephrectomy was performed through subcostal lumbotomy, evacuating 7,800 milliliters of serohematic content. An extended hilar lymphadenectomy was performed due to the discovery of lymphadenopathy at that level. The culture of the fluid was negative, and cytology was not performed because there was no clinical or radiological suspicion of a urothelial tumor.
The result of the histological examination confirmed the presence of a kidney with a multicystic appearance, with marked dilation of the pyelocalyceal system and severe parenchymal atrophy (thickness 0.5 cm). The epithelial lining showed dysplasia changes of different degrees, with areas of papillary pattern and areas of infiltration of the renal parenchyma.

In other areas, solid nests of cells with large, clear cytoplasm and high nuclear grade (Fuhrman grade 3) were identified; as well as lymph node infiltration of clear cell type renal cell carcinoma.

The subsequent evolution was unfavorable, with the appearance of liver metastases and the patient's eventual death two months later.