We present the case of a 70-year-old woman with a history of high blood pressure, hiatal hernia, constipation and hysterectomy who consulted for irritative voiding syndrome for 8 months, consisting of intense dysuria and frequency with occasional voiding urges without other added urological symptoms. In the last 6 months she had had 3 episodes of lower urinary tract infection with urine cultures positive for E. coli treated by her family doctor.
The initial study included blood biochemistry that was normal, urine and urine sediment study that showed intense leukocyturia, urine culture that was again positive for E.coli and a urinary cytology for spontaneous urination whose result was urothelial cells without atypia and abundant polymorphonuclear leukocytes. neutrophils. Treatment with antibiotics and anticholinergics (tolterodine) was prescribed.
After 3 months, the patient was reviewed in the outpatient clinic, with symptoms based on dysuria and frequency persisting, although she had improved considerably in emergencies with the anticholinergic, and even days before the review she had had a new episode of urinary infection.
Given the poor response found, a more advanced study was initiated, requesting intravenous urography to rule out urothelial tumor of the upper urinary tract, which was strictly normal, and urological ultrasound, which was also normal, so cystoscopy was performed in consultation, finding lesions. nodular, raised, solid in appearance, discreetly reddened, with adjacent areas of edema, located in the trigone and lower part of both lateral surfaces. Due to this finding, even though the patient had no risk factors for TB and the urography was strictly normal, urine smear microscopy and Lowenstein-Jensen culture of 6 samples of the first morning urine on consecutive days were performed, since that macroscopically the bladder lesions could be tuberculomas, these studies being negative for Koch bacillus, so endoscopic resection of the described lesions was performed under anesthesia. The pathological study revealed mucosal ulceration with significant chronic inflammatory infiltrate and vascular congestion, as well as the presence of plasma cells and lymphocytes constituting lymphoid follicles, which are divided into a central area where lymphoblasts and immunoblasts abound, called the clear germinal center, and a peripheral zone formed by mature cells (lymphocytes and plasma cells) giving rise to the lymphocytes of the mantle or corona radiata, as they are also called.

The patient was prescribed hygienic-dietary measures and antibiotic prophylaxis maintained in a long cycle at a single daily dose at night for 3 months and subsequently every other day for 6 months with ciprofloxacin, vitamin A in a single daily dose for 6 months, prednisone 30 mg for 45 days and subsequently in days alternating for another 45 days until definitive suspension, and finally digestive protection with omeprazole. The patient experienced clear improvement with progressive disappearance of the symptoms, especially after the third month of treatment.
Currently (one year after completing treatment), she is asymptomatic with normal control cystoscopy and negative urine cultures.