We present the case of a 70-year-old man with a history of gastrectomy for gastric adenocarcinoma 12 years ago and Gleason VII prostate carcinoma, (2 cylinders out of 6 affected by the tumor), surgically treated by radical prostatectomy ten years ago, with a lymph node lymphatic affected by the tumor and androgen blockade to date, with PSA of 0.06 in the last review. He went to the Emergency Department of our hospital due to a painless exophytic lesion at the level of the glans that had been present for about five weeks. He did not remember having had any previous injury or trauma to the area, and since the appearance of the injury he reported some episodes of bleeding due to friction.

During the patient's examination, we observed on the dorsum of the glans a rounded, dark reddish exophytic lesion approximately two centimeters in diameter, with a tendency to bleed, an elastic and non-painful consistency. No lymphadenectomies were palpable and the rest of the patient's physical examination was normal.
A biopsy of the lesion was performed, and during the intervention it was observed that it was a macroscopic, non-infiltrating tumor, located in the mucosa of the glans penis, with areas that appeared thrombosed and easily friable.

The intraoperative pathological analysis was reported as a lesion composed of undifferentiated cells with nuclear hyperchromatism, pleomorphism and a large number of mitoses and blackish pigment, which would be compatible with the diagnosis of melanoma.
The resection was completed with a subtotal penectomy with four centimeters of safety margin from the edge of the lesion and a bilateral superficial inguinal lymphadenectomy with nodes not affected by the tumor. A thoracoabdominal CT scan was performed, which showed the absence of metastatic disease. The anatomopathological study of the penectomy specimen reflected a maximum depth of invasion of 1.5 mm. Immunohistochemical analysis with S-100 and HMB 45 confirmed the diagnosis of melanoma (1).