This is a 73-year-old patient who comes to a gynecological consultation for metrorrhagia. The examination revealed no gynecological pathology and she was referred to the urology service for study. The patient has a personal history of a previous hysterectomy 20 years ago for leiomyomas, and has been going to a urology consultation for four years due to pain, hematuria and repeated urinary infections, having undergone a urological study that included cystoscopy with multiple biopsy in the first consultations. with the anatomopathological result of inflammation and urothelial dysplasia. Subsequently, she has followed periodic check-ups, including cytology and control cystoscopy with cold biopsy, with no evidence of neoplasia.
When referred for consultation to gynecology, an ultrasound study was performed in which a hypoechoic image was observed adjacent to the bladder, recommending a CT scan. The pelvic CT scan described an oval tumor, with well-defined contours, soft tissue density, slightly heterogeneous, about 5 cm in maximum diameter, located adjacent to the left anterior margin of the bladder without communication with the bladder lumen, presenting some margins. poorly defined with apparent infiltration of perivesical fat, and that in the anterior and inferior margin presents a linear image of soft tissue density that seems to contact the abdominal wall.

With the diagnosis of a prevesical mass suspicious for a desmoid cyst or persistent urachus tumor, surgery is performed. A midline laparotomy incision was performed with resection of the prevesical neoformative process associated with partial cystectomy.
In the macroscopic study of the piece, an oval formation of elastic consistency that measures 8x4 cm is described, and which when cut appears to correspond to a cystic formation filled with grayish and friable material. In the microscopic study it can be seen that the wall of said cavity is made up of fibromuscular tissue and starting from it a grade III papillary neoplasia of transitional epithelium is observed, which presents a fundamentally exophytic growth towards the lumen of the duct, without infiltrating the entire Wall. The tumor infiltrates the muscular wall of the bladder, included in one of the resection ends, without reaching the mucosa, and no urothelial neoplasia was observed in the epithelium of the bladder lining.

The patient's progress was uneventful after the intervention, she was discharged from the hospital and remains asymptomatic at present.