A 41-year-old man with a history of allergy to penicillins, high blood pressure under medical treatment, and psoriasis came to our clinic due to hematuria. Urine cytology was performed with atypia suggestive of malignancy and an abdominal ultrasound showing a bladder mass on the left lateral surface measuring 65x46 mm that produced left ureterohydronephrosis.
Given these findings, the patient underwent TUR of the bladder, resecting an infiltrative-looking mass that occupied the entire left lateral surface and did not reveal the ureteral orifice. A left nephrostomy is also placed. The pathological anatomy of said mass was undifferentiated urothelial carcinoma infiltrating the bladder. Given this condition, an extension study was performed with a normal thoracoabdominal CT scan, normal bone scintigraphy, and left retrograde pyelography, which revealed ureterohydronephrosis until it entered the bladder without seeing a mass within the ureteral lumen.
Since the extension study was negative, a radical cystoprostatectomy with Bricker-type shunt was performed. The pathological anatomy was high-grade solid urothelial carcinoma that infiltrated the perivesical fat, prostate and urethra with surgical margins free of tumor. Neoplastic cells are visualized in the vascular lumen in peritumoral vessels. In the left iliobturator chain lymph nodes infiltrated by urothelial carcinoma (pT4aN1M0). In the postoperative period, the patient presented recurrent episodes of anemia and thrombopenia that did not improve despite transfusing red blood cells and platelets. Kidney function remained normal and bricker function was correct from the beginning. After 5 days the patient successfully started tolerance. Given the isolated symptoms of anemia (around 7 g/dl of hemoglobin) and thrombopenia (around 20,000 platelets/ml), an abdominal CT scan was performed where no hematomas were observed and the drain output was scarce from the first moment, ruling out active bleeding. Enoxaparin was withdrawn to avoid pharmacological causes of thrombopenia. Coagulation was always normal and there were no signs of bleeding, ruling out disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). A hemolytic condition was also ruled out by having normal bilirubin and a negative direct Coombs test. Since the cause of the recurrent episodes of anemia and thrombopenia was not found, a sternal puncture-aspiration of bone marrow was performed, obtaining metastatic urothelial carcinoma cells. Upon discovering the infiltration of the bone marrow by the bladder tumor, replacement hemotherapy treatment was performed and chemotherapy treatment was initiated, and the patient died 3 weeks later.