A 68-year-old male patient with a personal history of TUR of the prostate due to benign prostatic hyperplasia in another center, whose pathological study showed the presence of a Gleason 6 adenocarcinoma with PSA values ​​within the normal range and who was subsequently treated with radiotherapy with radical intention currently being in a disease-free interval.
Consultation due to pain in the right groin of more than 2 years of evolution that increases with standing and decreases with recumbency. Diagnosed with a direct right inguinal hernia, surgery was performed, performing an inguinal herniorrhaphy and correction of a concomitant right hydrocele. At the same time, a mamelonated fleshy tumor was observed adhered to the upper pole of the testicle, measuring 2 centimeters in diameter. Right radical orchiectomy was performed via the inguinal route and excision of the spermatic cord above the internal inguinal ring. No lymphadenopathy is evident. The pathological study revealed a leiomyosarcoma with positivity for the immunohistochemical study of Actin and Vimentin and negative for Prostate Specific Antigen.

The extension study was normal. Complementary radiotherapy is considered. At 9 months he noticed the appearance of an excrescent lesion measuring 3 x 2.5 centimeters in the herniorrhaphy scar that was resected, reporting a recurrence of leiomyosarcoma with increased mitotic activity. It does not receive adjuvant activity. At 6 months he noticed the appearance of a new nodular lesion on the right flank with progressive increase in size. At the T.A.C. A nodule is evident that deeply infiltrates the subcutaneous fat and the iliopsoas muscle. The tumor is resected along with fibers of the minor oblique, transverse muscle and iliopsoas muscle. The pathological report is compatible with infiltration by leiomyosarcoma. At that point, adjuvant therapy with adriamycin and ifosfamide regimen for six cycles is proposed. After 12 months, surgery was performed again for a local recurrence, stony to the touch, which trapped arterial and venous vessels in the inguinal area. The report concludes recurrence of high-grade leiomyosarcoma.
The magnetic resonance imaging performed showed an inguinal lymphadenopathic mass with retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy that ruled out any possibility of radical treatment. It was decided to administer second-line chemotherapy with a docetaxel and gemcitabine regimen for six cycles. After an 8-month disease-free interval, the appearance of a new mass in the inguinal region along with lung metastases was confirmed in the CT scan. control, so palliative treatment with adriamycin was decided. Prior to this new recurrence, the patient presented an episode of hematuria that, using ultrasound, demonstrated the existence of a 3-centimeter excrescent lesion on the right bladder wall and which was confirmed by cystoscopy. The patient dismisses the possibility of TUR. due to being undergoing chemotherapy administration and subsequent deterioration of general condition.