42-year-old woman at the time of liver transplantation.
Her personal history prior to her transplant includes an appendectomy in 1978, liver cirrhosis of probable alcoholic origin diagnosed in 1989, UGIB secondary to grade II esophageal varices in 1996, along with portal hypertension and ascites. In February 1998 she was diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma.
The patient received a liver transplant in October 1998, which was uneventful and she was discharged on treatment with tacrolimus.
18 months after her transplant, the patient reported weakness in her lower limbs and loss of sensitivity for the first time, evolving within 2 months to complete paraplegia affecting the urinary bladder.
The physical examination revealed paraparesis with amyoatrophy due to disuse of the LES, greater subjective hypoesthesia in EID with level D8-D10, and more intense involvement of deep sensitivity in EID, especially at the vibratory level. ROT present, the patellars alive and the Achilles hypoactive. Bilateral extensor CPR.
In this case, the following diagnostic tests were also performed:
Brain MRI: involvement of the spinal cord from C2 to D10, also presenting hyperintense supratentorial lacunar lesions, mainly at the subcortical level of the left frontal lobe and also the right frontal, parietal and occipital lobes.
PEES: pathological at the posterior tibial level CSF: sexological determination for HTLV-I positive, rest normal.
Blood determination of antibodies (ELISA) and existence of the virus (HTLV-I), positive.
The patient was diagnosed with tropical spastic paraparesis and treated with Interferon-á, initially presenting slight improvement, especially at the distal level of the LS, despite the fact that in recent days the regimen had to be reduced due to an increase in transaminase values. Despite the good initial response, the symptoms have progressively worsened and at this time she is dependent for daily life and has a permanent bladder catheter after the attempt at bladder reeducation through intermittent catheterization failed. Liver transplantation is currently functional.
In the three cases, transplantectomy was not indicated given the spread of the virus to the blood and nervous systems and therefore the impossibility, given the measures we have, of eradicating it and due to the good function of the transplanted organs.