Patient with a history of hiatal hernia and two cesarean sections at 22 and 24 years of age. At the age of 31, she consulted because of complaints of urinary tract syndrome, accompanied by pelvic and perineal pain, in the days before, during and after menstruation, since the second cesarean section and with increasing intensity. She did not report hematuria or fever. Upon examination, the external genitalia and abdomen showed no alterations. She was treated on multiple occasions with urinary antiseptics, although positive urine cultures were never demonstrated. The renal ultrasound was normal and at the level of the bladder, a 1.5 cm hyperechogenic excrescent image was seen on the posterior surface. Cystoscopy was performed in the middle of the menstrual cycle, describing the existence of a small, minimally raised, dull, retrotrigonal area, which upon contact with the cystoscope produces faint ecchymoses, not being identified at that time as the image of endometriosis.
The patient was lost for controls for 3 years, during which she continued with the same symptoms, being treated by her gynecologist who performed diagnostic laparoscopy, not appreciating pelvic endometriotic foci, but adhesions to the pelvic walls and bladder attached to the uterine body. .
The patient came to our service again, undergoing an ultrasound and CT scan. Abdominal and transvaginal ultrasound showed echogenic formation on the bladder floor measuring 2 x 1.5x2.7.

In abdominopelvic CT, no pathology was observed at the level of abdominal organs, confirming the presence of a 2x3 cm mass in the bladder on the posterior surface with no clear plane of differentiation with the uterus.

At the age of 34 and with the suspicion of possible endometriosis, a bladder endoscopy was performed under anesthesia, a few days before menstruation, revealing a morular-looking mass of about 3 cm, retrotrigonal, with somewhat edematous mucosa, intact and with bluish areas. TUR was performed, showing when sectioning with the loop small cavities, which corresponded to cystic endometrial glands, from which retained blood flowed out when cut, in the form of blackish fluid.
The histopathological study confirmed the presence of intramuscular nests of endometrial type glands, surrounded by edematous endometrial stroma, without signs of malignancy; all of this compatible with the diagnosis of endometriosis.

The patient was treated for 6 months with LH-RH analogues. Five years later she is completely asymptomatic and with several bladder ultrasounds and two cystoscopies during this period without evidence of recurrence.