An 80-year-old man presented clinically with hematuria and left flank pain. Fist percussion in the left renal fossa was positive. Using imaging techniques, a mass was observed at the level of the left renal fossa that blurred the renal silhouette. The patient underwent surgery, performing a nephrectomy with proximal ureterectomy.
In the nephrectomy specimen, the renal parenchyma was replaced in its entirety by a heterogeneous whitish lesion within which cystic cavities of necrotic appearance could be seen with friable and poorly delimited intracavitary papillary formations and poorly delimited yellowish areas randomly combined with others of similar appearance. necrotic and/or hemorrhagic. When cut, a firm consistency was observed, mainly corresponding to the whitish-grayish areas, although in other locations a soft and even crunchy consistency was observed.
The histological study demonstrated a neoplasia consisting of a proliferation of spindle-shaped and polygonal cells with marked atypia and nuclear pleomorphism, which adopted a solid growth pattern. More than 75% of it showed differentiation to osteo and chondrosarcoma, although squamous differentiation could also be demonstrated, mainly covering the internal surface of the cystic formations previously described. The high cellular atypia observed became more evident with the presence of abundant multinucleated giant cells located within the solid fusiform areas and around the areas of osteosarcomatous differentiation (14) (probably the latter are actually atypical osteoclasts). The tumor contacted the renal capsule without exceeding it, invading vascular structures of the hilum and the adipose tissue of the pelvis. After rigorous sampling of the surgical specimen, few foci with histological pattern of clear cell carcinoma could be observed. The immunohistochemical study of the neoplasia showed positive immunostaining for cytokeratins in both the clear cell and spindle cell components, the latter being equally positive for vimentin (13). With all this, the diagnosis of renal sarcomatoid carcinoma was issued with a predominance of areas with heterologous malignant differentiation (osteo and chondrosarcoma), referring to the presence of foci of carcinoma with a clear cell pattern and areas with squamous differentiation.