An 86-year-old patient, retired construction worker, with no previous medical or surgical history, who consulted for occasional episodes of dizziness.
The physical examination revealed an irregular pulse of 92 per minute, blood pressure of 110/80, a normal cardio-pulmonary examination and a BMI (Body Mass Index) of 26. The abdominal examination revealed a painless mass on the right flank, which It moves with respiratory movements.
Preoperative evaluation shows an electrocardiogram with a complete arrhythmia due to atrial fibrillation, a normal blood count with a sedimentation rate of 36 mm/hr, Creatinine of 1.03 mg/dl, normal albumin and total proteins, and normal liver function. A computed tomography scan of the abdomen was performed and showed a 12 cm multilocular cystic mass. in diameter at the lower pole of the right kidney.

With the diagnosis of right kidney tumor, the risks of surgery are discussed with the patient and family, who accept the procedure. Three weeks after diagnosis, a hand-assisted laparoscopic radical nephrectomy was performed, indicated by the volume of the tumor mass.
The surgical procedure is carried out with the placement of 4 trocars. Two 10 mm, one right subcostal and another right pararectal at the level of the navel, the latter for the introduction of the camera. Two 5 mm trocars are also installed. in the epigastrium for separation of the liver. The introduction of the surgeon's hand is made through an oblique incision in the right iliac fossa. Radical nephrectomy is performed routinely, preserving the adrenal gland. The kidney is placed in a polyethylene bag and removed through the iliac fossa incision.

Surgical time was 100 minutes, with estimated bleeding less than 100 ml. There were no intraoperative or postoperative hemodynamic alterations.

The immediate postoperative period progressed without complications, requiring non-steroidal analgesics (Ketorolac) to control pain. Medical discharge is indicated 36 hours after surgery.
In the outpatient follow-up 9 days after surgery, the patient was asymptomatic and his examinations showed a hemoglobin of 13.7 mg/dl, Creatinine of 1.74 mg/dl and urea nitrogen of 23.0 mg/dl.
The biopsy was reported as kidney and perirenal adipose tissue that together weighed 1,400 gr. Towards the lower pole and in close contact with the kidney, there was a 9.5 cm tumor, of firm consistency, which when cut showed extensive cystic areas, yellow-orange, softened, necrotic, with hemorrhagic content and that did not penetrate the renal capsule. . On the periphery of the tumor, well-defined, pale yellow, adipose-appearing tumor areas were recognized, which together constituted a tumor 15 cm in diameter and which were in close contact with the surgical section, separated from it by a thin sheet of fibrous tissue. 0.1 cm thick.

Upon histological examination, the renal parenchyma showed preserved architecture. The central tumor portion presented a hypercellular neoplastic proliferation of spindled, stellate, epitheloid cells, some giant, with little poorly delimited cytoplasm, with irregular nuclei with prominent nucleoli and a high mitotic rate; The cells were arranged in sheets in the middle of a moderately abundant myxoid stroma in some sectors with characteristics of G3 myxofibrosarcoma (myxoid variant malignant fibrohistiocytoma).
In the peripheral portions, the tumor had a clearly adipose appearance that was better differentiated with G1-2 myxoliposarcoma characteristics. The adipose tumor was separated from the surgical section by a thin sheet of fibrous tissue 1 mm thick.
The pathological report concluded that it was a perinephric myxoliposarcoma with differentiation towards G3 myxofibrosarcoma (myxoid variant malignant fibrohistiocytoma). The patient is currently asymptomatic and has stable kidney function 9 months after surgery.