We describe the case of a 37-year-old man with a previous active life who reported osteoarticular pain of variable location in the last month and fever in the last week with peaks (morning and evening) of 40 C in the last 24-48 hours, so Go to the Emergency Service. Before starting the painting he was in Extremadura in a brucella endemic region, eating unpasteurized goat milk and cheese from said cattle. Several cases of brucellosis appeared among the diners. During admission for study of the febrile syndrome with an epidemiological history of possible exposure to Brucella, the patient presented with right epididymitis orchitis.
Physical examination reveals: Tª 40.2 C; BP: 109/68 mmHg; HR: 105 bpm. He is conscious, oriented, sweaty, eupneic, with good nutrition and hydration. No lymphadenopathy, goiter or jugular vein engorgement were palpable in the head and neck, with symmetrical carotid pulses. Rhythmic cardiac auscultation, without murmurs, rubs or extratones. Lung auscultation with preservation of the vesicular murmur. Abdomen soft, depressible, without masses or megalias. In the neurological examination, no meningeal signs or focal data were detected. Extremities without varicose veins or edema. Peripheral pulses present and symmetrical. In the urological examination, the right testis was seen enlarged, not adhered to the skin, with areas of fluctuation and intensely painful on palpation, with loss of the epididymal-testicular boundary and positive transillumination.
The analytical data show the following results: Blood count: Hb 13.7 g/dl; leukocytes 14,610/mm3 (neutrophils 77%); platelets 206,000/ mm3. ESR: 40 mm 1st hour. Coagulation: TQ 87%; APTT 25.8 sec. Biochemistry: Glucose 117 mg/dl; urea 29 mg/dl; creatinine 0.9 mg/dl; sodium 136 mEq/l; potassium 3.6 mEq/l; GOT 11 U/l; GPT 24 U/l; GGT 34 U/l; alkaline phosphatase 136 U/l; calcium 8.3 mg/dl. Urine: normal sediment.
During admission, blood cultures are requested: positive for Brucella and specific serologies for Brucella: Rose Bengal +++; Coombs test > 1/1280; Brucellacapt > 1/5120. The imaging tests requested (chest hypoechoic inside that may represent microabscesses.
With the diagnosis of epididymitis secondary to Brucella, symptomatic treatment is instituted (antipyretics, anti-inflammatories, rest and testicular elevation) as well as specific antibiotic treatment: Doxycycline 100 mg orally every 12 hours (for 6 weeks) and Streptomycin 1 gram intramuscularly every 24 hours ( for 3 weeks). The patient's condition improved significantly after a week of admission, and he was discharged home where he completed the antibiotic treatment regimen. In successive reviews in consultations, complete remission of the condition was confirmed.