An 81-year-old female patient presented to the emergency department with a 2-week history of asthenia, anorexia, and right lumbar pain. Hemodynamically stable, and with fever (38.5 degrees) for 3 days.
She had a history of heart failure associated with atrial fibrillation, and no history of urological diseases.
On physical examination, she presented pain on deep palpation located in the right hemiabdomen, with no signs of peritoneal irritation, with the presence of a palpable mass and a positive renal Murphy on the right.
The analyzes show leucytosis (22,390 with left shift), normocytic normochromic anemia, with renal function within normal parameters, leucituria and microscopic hematuria.
A reno-vesical x-ray was performed showing multiple radiopaque stones located in the right kidney.
Abdominopelvic computed tomography with intravenous contrast injection shows an enlarged right kidney, with corticomedullary disorganization and the presence of multiple large stone formations located in the renal pelvis.

With the diagnosis of pyonephrosis and to stabilize the general deterioration, we decided to perform a pecutaneous nephrostomy initially. We witnessed the release of abundant purulent fluid from the nephrostomy, which its culture revealed polymicrobial flora. Initiate broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotic therapy. After four days and because the surgical conditions were more suitable, we decided to perform a right nephrectomy through lombotomy.
The description of the surgical piece is:
Kidney (13x8.5x5 cm) sent with a 10 cm long ureteral segment and presence of perirenal adipose tissue. Dilation of the pyelocalyceal tree and marked atrophy of the renal parenchyma is observed. Inside the skin tree there are purulent contents and stones are identified, the largest being 4.5 cm. Foci of suppuration appear with abscessing of the renal parenchyma and perirenal adipose tissue. In the pelvis and adjacent calyxes, white tissue with a soft consistency measuring 6x5 cm is observed, which is 10 cm from the ureteral surgical mole.
Histological examination revealed adenocarcinoma with predominant areas of tubular pattern and focal areas of tubulovillous pattern.

The neoplasia presents characteristics of intestinal type adenocarcinoma, being possible to identify Goblet cells of the intestinal type that are characterized by the presence of apical intracytoplasmic mucus vacuoles. The nuclei in some areas are uniform and monotonous and in other areas they are more aggressive. , irregular, of different sizes and with frequent mitotic activity. The neoplasia invades the subepithelial connective tissue. Glandular metaplasia of the urothelial epithelium is identified in the lining of the pyelocalyceal tree.
Six months after the surgical intervention, the patient died.