Infant, of Caucasian race, the first daughter of young parents (28-year-old mother and 30-year-old father) who were healthy and not consanguineous, with no history of hereditary familial pathology, kidney disease or known hypertension. Pregnancy correctly monitored and without alterations. Eutocic delivery at 37 weeks without complications, presenting an Apgar test of 9/10. Anthropometry at birth, weight of 2,760 grams, with cephalocaudal diameter of 48.5 cm and head circumference of 34.7 cm. VDRL, AntHBs, HIV negative, non-immune Toxoplasmosis and immune rubella. Detected bilateral auricular appendages, low implantation of the pinna, cutaneous granulomas, micrognathism with mandibular hypoplasia, coloboma located in the left eye and solid scrotal swelling apparently not painful on palpation. Updated vaccine schedule.

The infant is transferred from another hospital at 19 days of age with the diagnosis of urosepsis. Initially admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit to stabilize the condition, through supportive measures and antibiotic therapy with ampicillin, gentamicin and cefotaxime.
He performed a reno-pelvic-scrotal ultrasound that revealed bilateral uretero-hydronephrosis and a bladder with thickened walls, right scrotal swelling, with apparent hypo- and hyperechoic images with septa and apparent testicular destruction.
Once the parameters are stabilized and with negative urine culture, we perform a serial voiding cystourethrography showing a dilation of the posterior urethra, a trabeculated bladder and no presence of vesico-ureteral reflux, suspecting posterior urethral valves.

Whole-body bone radiographs do not detect bone alterations or vertebral alterations.
We performed fulguration of the posterior urethral valves and right inguinal orchidectomy. The postoperative period passed without complications. We removed the probe on the seventh postoperative day. He was discharged with normal kidney function, negative urine culture and correct diuresis.
At the fourth month of life he was hospitalized with a diagnosis of respiratory infection in the context of bronchiolitis, with positive urine cultures for polymicrobial flora, he was medicated with antibiotics, and discharged with antibiotic prophylaxis with trimethoprim-sufamethoxazole.
At the fifth month, having aseptic urine, we performed intravenous urography and renal scintigraphy with MAG-3 and furosemide test, presenting bilateral ureteral dilation, right renal bifidity, with normal bladder capacity and complete emptying of the bladder, urethra apparently without alterations, the Bilateral renal function is preserved, responding to the furosemide test. We reached the diagnosis of bilateral non-obstructive ureteral dilations associated with pelvic bifidity. We decided to carry out checks every 6 months.
At the last check-up, the 15-month-old child had normal kidney function, good diuresis, and urinary sediments without alterations.