43-year-old woman, housewife, allergic to iodinated contrast and smoker of 1 pack of cigarettes a day, hysterectomized and right oopherectomized for endometriosis.
The patient is being studied by the Hematology Service for isolated leukocytosis; She underwent an abdominal ultrasound, which found a destructured left kidney with cystic images or hydronephrosis and was referred to our consultations.
During the interrogation, she refers to a 27-day admission, when she was 12 years old, in another hospital for low back pain with hematuria without knowing her diagnosis. She also reports occasional mechanical lumbar pain with moderate asthenia.
Physical examination: no findings
Complementary tests: complete blood count with slight leukocytosis without deviation in leukocyte formula, the rest being normal, biochemistry and coagulation normal.
MAG-3-Tc-99m renogram: normal right kidney. Heterogeneous uptake in the left kidney with superior calicillary dilation, retention in the left upper pole presenting an excretory slowing of the curve whose activity disappears in late images.
Non-contrast CT: left upper polar renal cystic mass of approximately 12 cm. maximum diameter displacing pancreas and spleen. Internally it consists of multiple cysts of different sizes and presents heterogeneous internal septa, some of them thick and irregular suggestive of multinodular cystic nephroma or cystic renal cell carcinoma.
It was decided to perform nephrectomy with left lymphadenectomy. In the anatomopathological study of the specimen, the kidney was reported to have a 9x10 cm tumor. multicystic disease that occupies most of the kidney. The content of the cyst is amber without the presence of solid parts or adhesion of the tumor in the capsule. The cavities are lined with a simple epithelium with the presence of frequent cells with a "tack" morphology. The intercellular stroma is fibrous. Well-demarcated lesion of the preserved renal parenchyma. Pathological diagnosis of benign multilocular cystic tumor of the kidney.