Two newborns, male and female from the same mother and died at 10 and 45 minutes of life respectively, who underwent autopsy examination. The first of the corpses, corresponding to the female, was sent with the clinical judgment of severe respiratory failure with suspicion of Potter's Syndrome with the confirmation of severe oligohydramnios; She was born by urgent cesarean section due to breech presentation and the Apgar test was 1/3/7; Minutes later she died. The external examination revealed a subcyanotic tone, triangular facies with mongoloid eyelid slits, micrognathia, wide nasal root and prominent occiput. The abdomen, globular, hard and slightly dented, allowed the palpation of two large masses occupying both renal fossae and hemiabdomens. Upon opening of the cavities, the presence of two large renal masses of 10 x 8 x 5.5 cm and 12 x 8 x 6 cm with weights of 190 and 235 g respectively stood out. Although the kidney silhouette could be discerned, the dented surface presented numerous cystic formations with serous content; When cut, these cysts showed a heterogeneous size, with those located at the cortical level being larger, giving the kidney a sponge-like appearance. The right and left lungs weighed 17 and 15 grams (usual weight of the whole of 49 grams) showing a uniform reddish hue; Both were compressed as a consequence of the diaphragmatic elevation caused by the large size of the kidneys. The rest of the organs did not show significant macroscopic alterations except for positional alterations derived from renal compression. In the second of the corpses, the one corresponding to the male, similar morphological changes were observed although the size exhibited by the kidneys was even greater, with weights of 300 and 310 grams. The rest of the abdominal viscera were compressed against the diaphragm. In both cases, a detailed histological study was performed, focusing especially on the kidneys in which multiple cysts of different sizes with saccular morphology at the cortical level were demonstrated. These cysts occupied most of the corticomedullary parenchyma, although the preserved areas did not show significant alterations except focal immaturity. These cysts were lined by a simple epithelium that varied from flat or cubic. The smaller and more rounded medullary cysts were covered by a predominantly cubic epithelium. After the kidneys, the most striking alterations were in the liver where proliferation and dilation, even cystic, of the bile ducts at the level of the portal spaces were observed. With these findings, the diagnosis of childhood autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease was issued in both cases.