This is a 67-year-old patient with a history of depressive syndrome and prostatism, who was diagnosed with descending colon carcinoma at the beginning of 2004. In March of that same year, a left subtotal colectomy with ileosigmoid anastomosis was performed. In the pathological study of the colectomy specimen, a 4x2 centimeter tumor was observed compatible with a moderately differentiated colon adenocarcinoma, infiltrating up to the subserosa fat, without lymph node involvement and with free surgical margins (pT3NoMo). In the postoperative period he required drainage of an abscess in the abdominal wall, and the rest of the postoperative period was uneventful.
In the preoperative analysis, the patient had a hematocrit of 47.7, hemoglobin of 15.6, creatinine of 0.91, urine analysis within normal limits, a PSA < 4 and a Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA) level of 91. .45 (Normal < 5.00). The preoperative CT scan revealed a mass in the descending colon compatible with colon carcinoma with small, non-significant retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy less than 1 centimeter in diameter, as well as chronic fibroscarring lesions in the chest.
Four months after the colectomy, the patient began to notice a painful nodular mass at the level of the right testicle. A testicular ultrasound is then performed, which detects a heterogeneous lesion, with solid and cystic areas, at the level of the body of the right epididymis and that could be affecting the testicle, so the Urology Service is consulted for its evaluation.

During the examination we found that the patient had a painful 1-2 centimeter tumor in the right epididymis, as well as another smaller tumor in the right spermatic cord.
Surgical exploration of the lesions is scheduled under spinal anesthesia with oncological criteria: inguinal incision, extraction of the right testis and spermatic cord and clamping thereof. Macroscopically we observed, in the middle third of the right epididymis, a nodular lesion about 2 centimeters in diameter, yellowish in color and elastic in consistency, firmly adhered to the right testicle, from which we removed it with difficulty. Apparently the testis appeared macroscopically normal and without infiltration. In the right spermatic cord we palpated another lesion with similar characteristics, which seemed to encompass the cord circumferentially. An intraoperative biopsy was performed, which was reported as adenocarcinoma, so we decided - after informing the patient who gave his consent - to perform a right radical orchiectomy, including the spermatic cord.
The Pathological Anatomy Service, after studying the surgical specimen, confirmed that it was a tumor measuring 2 centimeters in diameter in the middle third of the right epididymis and another tumor in the right spermatic cord measuring 1.5 centimeters in diameter, corresponding to malignant epithelial neoformations with structures glandular lesions compatible with metastasis of an adenocarcinoma, possibly of the colon. The surgical margins and the right testicle were free of tumor.

The postoperative period was uneventful, and the patient was discharged from the Urology Service the day after the intervention and transferred to the Oncology Service for complementary treatment with chemotherapy. In the postoperative controls, control and analytical CT scans were performed, detecting 12 weeks after the orchiectomy a significant elevation of the CEA that corresponded to the appearance in the imaging tests (CT) of retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy larger than 1 centimeter, nodules lungs and a thickening of the colon wall near the anastomosis. The patient is currently alive, although the imaging studies performed after the intervention showed that the evolution is unfavorable despite the chemotherapy treatment, with the appearance of multiple mesenteric and hepatic implants and an increase in the number and size of lung nodules.