A 73-year-old male patient with a history of brucellosis, hyperuricemia, and hypercholesterolemia was admitted to our Service for scheduled surgery for benign prostatic hyperplasia. In the diagnostic study, he presented a rectal examination that showed a prostate with adenomatous characteristics, greatly enlarged (G III / IV). Retropubic adenomectomy was performed according to the T. Millin technique, enucleating a large adenoma weighing 170 grams. Six days later the tube is removed, the patient resumes comfortable urination and is discharged.
Eleven days after the intervention, and just four after discharge, the patient was re-admitted to our service due to abdominal pain (hypogastric), pain in the right testicle and thigh root on the same side, and a non-specific poor general condition in the last 24 hours. A small amount of seropurulent fluid drains through the hole where he took the adenomectomy drainage. Minimally packed surgical wound. He was admitted to urology with a diagnosis of surgical wound infection and empirical antibiotic treatment was instituted.
The general and urological examination is within normal limits. Epididymitis is ruled out. Analytically, a marked decrease in red blood cell values ​​is observed; leukocytosis is not demonstrated. The patient is treated symptomatically but does not improve. The pain in the pubic area is accentuated, so a bone scan is performed, which reports the finding of pathological hyperuptake of the radiotracer in the upper third of both pubes in relation to possible pubic osteopathy, as the only data of interest. The patient still does not improve, the treatments (based on empirical antibiotic therapy and analgesia) fail to reduce the pain that is now located in the root of the thigh, and the general deterioration is accentuated. The patient presents severe anemia, elevated ESR, fibrinogen and CRP. Examination of the thigh is unremarkable, with nonspecific pain on pressure on the inner surface of the thigh. The pain is attributed to neurological involvement, since the examination is normal, and because the pain also extends through the inguinal area and right testicle.
With the suspected diagnosis of a possible pelvic abscess (the septic condition seemed undoubtable to us) in relation to the surgical history, an abdominal CT scan was requested. He reports absolute normality of the abdominal organs... but cuts made below the pubic symphysis at the level of the right thigh reveal a large abscess in the area of ​​the adductor muscles. Given this finding, collaboration was requested from the traumatology service, which noted that the inner aspect of the right thigh was now slightly red, swollen, painful on palpation but without clear fluctuation. Free hip joint. Seven days after admission and as an emergency, surgery is performed: a wide longitudinal incision is made on the inner surface of the proximal third of the thigh and by means of blunt digital dissection, a deep penetration is made through the abductor muscles until reaching a large purulent collection that proximally goes towards the pubis. An abundance of malodorous pus is obtained (samples are taken for microbiological study). After washing the cavity with plenty of serum and hydrogen peroxide, the surgical wound is partially closed and Penrose-type drains are left. The exploration of the surgical wound of the adenomectomy and the area where the drainage was at the current time are absolutely normal and no cavities or collections are identified. Drains are placed and the intervention is concluded. The patient required intensive care, transfusion of blood products, a long period of hospitalization, meticulous local cures, etc. The patient presents a slow but excellent evolution towards total healing. All subsequent controls (analytical, radiological, ultrasound...) corroborate the good evolution. The microbiology service informs us that the following results were obtained in the cultures carried out: in pure culture of seropurulent fluid from the surgical wound of the adenomectomy: Coagulase negative Staphylococcus (without being able to specify the species). Culture of pus obtained during surgery to drain the thigh abscess: two strains of coagulase-negative Staphylococcus grow (identified as Staphylococcus epidermidis and alpha hemolytic Streptococcus).