A 47-year-old man, with no relevant history, was accidentally diagnosed with a right kidney mass by ultrasound during a routine study due to abdominal pain. Abdominopelvic CT confirmed the presence of a solid and heterogeneous mass of approximately 6 cm, located in the upper pole of the right kidney with a patent renal vein.

A right radical nephrectomy was performed via subcostal laparotomy, with no lymphadenopathy observed. The pathological diagnosis was clear cell renal cell carcinoma measuring 8.4 centimeters, pT3aNoMo stage, Robson stage II and Fuhrman nuclear grade IV. The patient was discharged five days after surgery. Approximately three months later and before being seen in the clinic for follow-up of his neoplasia, the patient went to the emergency room due to recent pain in the right upper quadrant. Upon examination, a painful mass was palpable in the right hypochondrium, which is why a new CT scan was performed, which revealed a tumor recurrence in the surgical bed, infiltrating the posterior right diaphragmatic pillar and liver; Likewise, peritoneal implants were evident, the largest measuring four centimeters adjacent to the hepatic hilum.

It was decided to remove the tumor masses, resecting the mass adjacent to the liver as well as several peritoneal and retroperitoneal implants, with the intraoperative biopsy being compatible with high-grade clear cell carcinoma in all the pieces. The paravertebral retroperitoneal mass was inaccessible due to its intimate contact with the great vessels.
Given these findings, it was decided to contact the Oncology Service, starting treatment with Interferon (Intron A), with poor tolerance and requiring a dose reduction.
In the check-ups carried out, the patient reported non-specific abdominal discomfort that responded to mild analgesics, but in the control CT scan of the abdomen performed 5 months after the second surgery, multiple liver lesions suggestive of metastasis were observed, as well as growth of the recurrence of the surgical bed. and several peritoneal implants in the omentum.