This is a 59-year-old patient who was admitted with a gunshot wound with an entry hole in the buttock, about 4 millimeters in diameter and no exit hole. He also has another gunshot wound to the right thigh with an entry hole from behind and an exit hole from the front, without affecting important structures. The patient is conscious, oriented and with slight abdominal defense. The simple abdominal x-ray shows a bullet located at the level of the pubic symphysis, as well as a fracture of the right descending ramus. The patient arrives in retention, with catheterization being impossible, so a suprapubic catheter is placed. Afterwards, a laparotomy was performed, and no other lesions were found, and a left colostomy was performed. The next day a urethrogram is performed, verifying that there is passage of contrast from the urethra to the rectum, which causes high fever with chills that lasts for a few days. Subsequently, five days after the first intervention, the patient is taken to the operating room, a colonoscopy is performed, revealing the rectal perforation. Next, an endoscopic urethrotome is introduced to the prostatic urethra, visualizing the apparently large orifice that connects the urethra with the rectum. Despite everything, it is possible to find the path that leads to the bladder and finally a size 18 catheter is left.

Immediately afterwards, in the same surgical procedure, a laparotomy is performed up to the pubic symphysis, the abdomen is checked again, verifying that there is no injury. The space of Retzius is then dissected and, using radiological control, the anterior surface of the prostate, which is hyperplastic, is palpated until the projectile is touched. Next, with a ring forceps and always under radiological control, the bullet can be grabbed and extracted. The postoperative period was uneventful and the patient was discharged a few days later with the tube.

After three months the patient is asymptomatic, a new colonoscopy is performed, it is found that the rectal opening has disappeared and the colostomy is closed, without incident. However, the tube is left on for three more months, that is, a total of six months. After this time, a urethrogram is performed again, it is verified that the gap has closed and the catheter is removed. Six months later, the patient returns for control, is asymptomatic and has normal sexual function; This time only an ultrasound was performed, which was normal and he was discharged definitively.