This is a one-month-old male, of Moroccan origin, who came to the emergency room due to vomiting, food refusal, and abdominal distension for 4 days. The pregnancy was controlled, with no obstetric or perinatal history of interest, and the baby was born at term and with a weight appropriate to her gestational age. The examination revealed a fair general condition, with cutaneous-mucosal pallor and generalized edema predominantly in the lower extremities. A polyfocal grade IV/VI systolic murmur was heard. The abdomen was distended, with the presence of a superficial venous network and ascites. The laboratory examination showed the presence of normocytic normochromic anemia, leukocytosis with a normal formula, creatinine less than 0.2 mg/dl and urea less than 10 mg/dl, increased cholesterol and triglycerides, and decreased total proteins and albumin, in addition to hyponatremia. , hypokalemia and hypocalcemia. Parathyroid hormone was slightly elevated. In urine he had proteinuria in the nephrotic range with a proteinuria/creatinuria index of 33.7.

Given the suspicion of CNS, intensive diuretic and antiproteinuric therapy, antithrombotic prophylaxis, adjuvant treatment with alfacalcidiol, iron, calcium carbonate and levothyroxine, as well as enteral nutrition with a high-protein and high-calorie formula, were initiated. He required treatment with serum albumin and erythropoietin. In the cardiological study, moderate valvular pulmonary stenosis and atrial septal defect were diagnosed. In the genetic study, Frameshift mutations were found for the NPHS1 gene, Intronic Variant mutations for the NPHS2 gene, and Missense mutations for the WT1 gene.
At three months of age he was readmitted due to seizure status secondary to severe hypocalcemia. Due to the high intake of intravenous calcium that she required to control her through peripheral venous access, a third-degree burn occurred that required the placement of a skin graft.
She required intensive care on two occasions at 4 and 6 months of age due to sepsis secondary to Staphylococcus hominis and Enterococcus faecalis, respectively, which resolved with empirical antibiotic therapy and subsequently according to an antibiogram.
Finally, the patient died at 8 months of age due to bilateral pneumonia associated with pneumothorax with decompensation of his underlying pathology that caused refractory hypoxemia.