A 67-year-old man was admitted to the internal medicine service due to constitutional syndrome, anemia, and a mass in the right flank.
Personal history of interest includes: cerebrovascular accident in the middle cerebral territory, secondary to atrial fibrillation at age 64; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; usual treatment with oral dicoumarins and amiodarone.
The patient presents anorexia, asthenia, and loss of 12 kilograms of weight in 4 months. Twenty days before admission, sudden pain began in the right flank and renal fossa. The urological history is normal. On physical examination, a painful mass was palpated in the right hemiabdomen. Rest of the unremarkable exploration. In the analytical study, normocytic and normochromic anemia (hemoglobin 10, 6) and prolongation of ESR stand out; the biochemical, urinary and tumor marker study was normal. The abdominal ultrasound revealed a right renal mass with a mixed ultrasonographic pattern measuring 17 x 13 centimeters in diameter, with an extraparenchymal area compatible with hematoma. The full-body computed axial tomography (CT) showed a predominantly solid mixed mass in the upper pole of the right kidney, with probable infiltration of the psoas muscle; No lymphadenopathy or vascular thrombosis was observed. Prior to surgery, and given the large size of the tumor mass, arteriography is performed, selectively embolizing the renal artery through colis. Three days later, a radical nephrectomy was performed through the anterior approach, revealing a large tumor mass dependent on the right kidney, which did not affect the psoas muscle.

Histologically, at a macroscopic level, a tumor mass measuring 10 centimeters in diameter was observed affecting perinephric fat without affecting the excretory or venous systems. Microscopically, it is a very undifferentiated renal spindle cell malignant tumor, Fuhrman grade 4 sarcomatoid type, with perinephric infiltration but without involvement of the excretory and venous systems; pT3 G3 N0 M0. After surgery, the patient progressed favorably and was discharged on the tenth postoperative day.

In the first review, six months after the intervention, the control CT scan revealed two heterogeneous cystic masses in the retroperitoneal space; the first adjacent to the psoas muscle, about 12 centimeters in diameter, with probable liver and ascending colon infiltration; the second 10 centimeters adjacent to the psoas muscle. Ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) was performed, resulting in renal carcinoma metastasis. Full-body bone scan did not reveal metastatic lesions.

At 72 hours from the P.A.A.F. The patient presented dizziness, abdominal distension and anemia, and blood tests showed a loss of 5 g/dl of hemoglobin compared to discharge. The CT scan at that time showed a large retroperitoneal mass, with an intense hemorrhagic component. Exploratory laparotomy was performed, evacuating retroperitoneal hematoma, and performing excision of a hemorrhagic cystic tumor, adhered to the caudate lobe of the liver, which in the intraoperative biopsy was reported as a high-grade, partially cystic, spindle-cell malignant tumor, compatible with recurrence of renal tumor. Post-operative evolution the patient presents a new retroperitoneal hematoma.