The patient was a 29-year-old man with a history of two admissions for febrile syndrome in the last two years. On one occasion, in June 1999, he was diagnosed with infectious mononucleosis with positive serology for EBV (VCA IgG, VCA IgM and EBNA positive). In the other case, in September 2000, after presenting a 10-day history of fever with chills, asthenia and general malaise with persistence of positive serology for EBV, the abdominal ultrasound revealed the finding of splenomegaly with a hypoechoic lesion that , after responding favorably to antibiotic treatment (broad-spectrum coverage), was discharged with the diagnosis of splenic abscess. Since then he remained asymptomatic until he was re-admitted in June 2001 due to a feverish condition lasting a week, accompanied by chills, headache, odynophagia and weight loss, with no other accompanying symptoms. His physical examination revealed a temperature of 39°C, poor general condition, pale mucous membranes and splenomegaly. The analysis showed data of normocytic anemia (Hb 11.9 g/dl, Hct 35.8% and MCV 91.8 fl), thrombopenia (44,000 platelets/mm3), normal leukocytes (7,440/mm3) with neutrophilia (77%). ) and left deviation (7%Cay), slight elevation of transaminases (GPT 48 UI/L) and cholestasis enzymes (GGT 88 UI/L, FA 232 UI/L). The rest of the biochemical parameters, the coagulation study and the elemental urine analysis were normal. The proteinogram, immunoglobulin determination and immunological study were normal. Various microbiological studies were carried out that included serologies for hepatitis viruses (A, B and C), retroviruses (HIV-1 and 2), typhoid parasites, brucella, mycoplasma, legionella (with the determination of antigen in urine), herpes. , CMV, and toxoplasma that were negative. The results of serology for EBV were positive anti-VCA IgG and anti-EBNA IgG and negative anti-VCA IgM. The rest of the microbiological studies (blood cultures, sputum cultures and urine cultures, which included the study of mycobacteria) were negative. In the imaging tests, specifically in the abdominal CT, a focal splenic lesion was evident (which was related to an abscess or infarction), increased lymph nodes in number at the paraortic level, and mesenteric lymphadenopathy. In other studies, the results (microbiological and histopathological) obtained from liver and bone marrow biopsy were negative.
Given the initial suspected diagnosis of intra-abdominal abscess, antibiotic treatment was started with ceftazidime, metronidazole and vancomycin, progressing with slight clinical improvement. Subsequently, given the history and clinical condition mentioned above, and in order to rule out, among other diagnostic possibilities, a lymphoproliferative process, a diagnostic laparotomy was performed under general anesthesia. In this intervention, significant splenomegaly, focal thickening of the liver capsule of the left hepatic lobe, a small peritoneal nodule in the mesentery of the distal ileum, as well as multiple small lymphadenopathy at the same level were found, samples were obtained from all of them and splenectomy was performed.
The histological study of the nodes indicated reactive lymphadenitis in the lymph nodes, calcified granuloma in a peritoneal nodule and no relevant findings in the left hepatic lobe sample. The splenectomy specimen, which weighed 442 grams and measured 15 x 11 cm in largest diameter, had a 2 cm subcapsular nodule. larger in diameter, homogeneous and whitish. The remaining splenic tissue was congestive in appearance without showing any pathology. The microscopic analysis revealed a proliferation of spindle cell and myofibroblastic cells, with positivity in the immunohistochemical studies for actin and negativity for ALK 1 and EBV, resulting in the pathological diagnosis of inflammatory pseudotumor of the spleen. The patient evolved favorably and has remained asymptomatic since then.