An 89-year-old male patient with no relevant medical history who consulted for anorexia of a month and a half duration accompanied by edema in the hands and feet. He reported some episodes of rectal bleeding. Physical examination only revealed pitting edema limited to the metacarpophalangeal and metatarsophalangeal joints. With the suspected diagnosis of RS3PE, therapy was started with prednisone 20 mg/24 hours, and the edema completely disappeared after 5 days of treatment. Given that this syndrome may appear associated with other pathologies, the patient was studied.

In the complementary tests, the hemoglobin was Hb 10.3 g/dL, with MCV 94.5 fl. Biochemistry glucose, urea, creatinine, uric acid, total calcium, phosphate, cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, total proteins, GPT, LDH, GGT, Na, K were normal. Normal cobalamins and folates. Beta-2-normal microglobulin. A monoclonal band to IgA lambda appeared in the proteinogram. C-reactive protein and ESR were normal. Interleukin 6 was normal. Negative HIV serology. Rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibodies, and antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies were negative. The PSA was normal. The HLA-B27 phenotype was positive. Bence-Jones proteinuria was negative. The colonoscopy was normal. X-rays of the hands and feet showed no erosive lesions. In the chest CT in the posterior segment of the LSD, a pulmonary infiltrate was seen that adopted a branched (tree inbud) and nodular morphology; In the LM, an infiltrate with branched, nodular morphology and subsegmental condensation with air bronchogram was also observed; biapical pleuroparenchymal tracts thin-walled cylindrical bronchiectasis in LII and with thickening of the lingula, and pleura. Abdominal CT scan of the urinary bladder with thickening of the bladder floor, with multiple diverticula, prostatic hypertrophy. Bronchoscopy showed a trachea and left bronchial tree with chronic inflammatory signs, including diverticula and anthracotic plaques throughout the bronchial tree; At the level of the right bronchial tree, in the intermediate bronchus a few mm before reaching the LM entrance, mucosal infiltration was observed and at the LM entrance there was a mass with a necrotic and very friable appearance that completely obstructed the entrance. No bronchial biopsy was performed due to bleeding. . The BAS cytological study revealed an acute inflammatory smear. Löwestein's BAS culture was positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
In the patient's evolution, it was observed that 5 days after starting corticosteroid treatment, the edema of the hands and feet disappeared, and after a month the hemoglobin was normalized. Four months after starting prednisone, Mycobacterium tuberculosis was identified and isoniazid, rifampicin and pyrazinamide were prescribed, and corticosteroid treatment was suspended due to suspicion of Poncet's disease. Three months after starting tuberculostatics and withdrawing corticosteroids, edema reappeared in the hands and feet, so corticosteroid treatment was reintroduced.