14-year-old male patient, resident in the city of Medellín, previously asymptomatic, who was referred to the urology service of the Pablo Tobón Uribe Hospital with a diagnosis of left testicular mass. The patient incidentally palpated a painless testicular mass in the left scrotal area, without noticing its growth over time, not related to local trauma or associated with other symptoms. He initially consulted his local doctor and was ordered an ultrasound study which showed in the left scrotal sac two well-defined rounded images of similar size, shape and echogenicity, measuring an average of 9 x 11 mm, which also presented a Doppler pattern. similar. This study ruled out injuries to the epididymis. With this result, they suggest ruling out a testicular mass or supernumerary testicle and refer him to the internist, who orders a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which reported the presence of three well-defined oval-looking structures in the scrotal sac, compatible with two testicles and one additional (see Fig. 2), without masses or lymphadenopathy. Due to these findings, he was referred to urology. Patient with negative personal history. Upon physical examination, the patient was found to be in good general condition, with vital signs within normal parameters for his age and adequate pondostural development; There were no palpable masses or hernias in his abdomen, and he did not have inguinal lymphadenopathy. In the external genitalia, the normal penis was observed, and two healthy testicles were palpated and also an adenomatous spherical mass, located in the upper (proximal) area of ​​the left hemiscrotum, mobile, non-painful, easily separated with the fingers, without the presence of nodulations or signs. of local inflammation.

Based on the clinical history, complementary studies and physical examination findings, a diagnostic impression of paratesticular mass or PQ is made. With this clinical approach and after reviewing the topic, it was decided to undergo surgery for exploration and resection of said lesion, with prior informed consent from the patient and his family. Under general anesthesia, a transverse scrotal incision is made, with subsequent dissection through planes up to the albuginea on the left side, observing the presence of two structures of equal size, appearance and consistency compatible with testicles, being joined by a common epididymis and each one with a vascular package, where only one, the caudal one, presented a structure compatible with the vas deferens, in which a testicular appendage was seen, which led us to think that it corresponded in its embryological origin to the upper testicular pole, while in the another, located proximally or superiorly, was observed to have a very dilated and single venous package. Section, ligation with exhaustive hemostasis and cutting of the latter were performed; A rounded, brownish-colored structure with a firm consistency, approximately 1.2 cm in its greatest diameter, is obtained, which is sent for anatomopathological study. Then a pocket is made in the subdartos space where the healthy testicle is housed and it is fixed with absorbable organic suture material (polyglactin) Vicryl® 4-0 (Ethicon, Johnson & Johnson). A plane closure is performed and a block of the ilioinguinal nerve on the left side is performed. He was discharged in the immediate postoperative period and progressed satisfactorily, without complications. For the pathology report, two fragments are processed and a normal testicle is reported in the histological sections. Without seminal intratubular neoplasia.