We present the case of a 66-year-old male patient with a history of hyperglycemia on dietary treatment, doubtful epididymal tuberculosis (TB), decortication of the vocal cords and a smoker of 40 cigarettes/day, who attended outpatient clinics due to an episode of hematuria.
Physical examination: good general condition.
Rectal examination: grade I-II/IV prostate, elastic consistency, preserved limits. No suspicious areas are seen.
Blood tests are performed (hemogram: red blood cells 5.09 million/mm; hemoglobin 15.8 gr/dl; hematocrit 47.35%; platelets 250.0 thousand/mm; leukocytes 10.67 thousand/mm (neutrophils 47.10 %, lymphocytes 44.9%, eosinophils 1.20%, basophils 0.8%). Coagulation study: no alterations. Biochemistry: no alterations; PSA 2.9) and urine (Urine systematic: density 1015; pH 6 .5; leukocytes 500/microl; nitrites negative; erythrocytes 10/field. Sediment: abundant leukocytes), with negative urine cytology (intense acute inflammatory component), simple abdominal x-ray in which lithiasis is observed in the lower pole of the left kidney and abdominal ultrasound with normal right kidney, lithiasis in the lower pole of the left kidney and irregular dilation of the ureter on that same side. At the bladder level, a mass with a maximum diameter of approximately 1 cm was seen on the left lateral surface.
IVU was performed in which a left kidney was observed with calyceal dilation and irregularities throughout its contour, dilation of the ureter on the same side, with tortuous and irregular contours, up to the iliac ureter. In its last 8-10 cm to the bladder, said ureter appears normal. Cystogram with contour irregularities in its upper portion.
A cystoscopy was performed, revealing a tumor on the left lateral surface of the bladder, solid in appearance and whitish in color, which prevented the view of the left ureteral orifice. Urine culture was requested in Löwenstein, and TUR of the bladder mass was performed. The postoperative period was uneventful.
AP report: tuberculoid granulomatous cystitis, compatible with TB.
Lowenstein in urine: Positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Genitourinary tuberculosis was diagnosed with bladder tuberculoma and left renoureteral involvement and tuberculostatic treatment was started (Isoniazid 5 mg/kg/day + Pyrazinamide 30 mg/kg/day + Rifampin 10 mg/kg/day for 2 months. Isoniazid + Rifampicin in the same dose during the following 4 months).
Throughout his follow-up (14 months after diagnosis and having completed treatment) he presented fistula with exudate in the left testis in whose staining no AFB was observed, with Lowenstein negative. It closed with local priests. A control testicular ultrasound was performed, showing chronic changes in both epididymides with a small bilateral hydrocele.
Control IVUs are carried out, showing good evolution, improving the function and morphology of the urinary tract (left). In the last one carried out (4 years after diagnosis) an alteration was seen in the morphology of the lower pole of the left kidney with a decrease in the cortex and associated variegated calcification in the parenchyma, all in relation to his diagnosis of TB. Ureters of normal caliber and morphology. Stress bladder and prostatic hypertrophy.
Löwenstein urine cultures remained negative after the medical treatment was completed.