Male patient, 33 years old, with a history of terminal chronic renal failure secondary to polycystic disease. He was transplanted from a deceased donor at another institution in 2007. He received immunosuppressive management with prednisone, tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil. In March 2012, a kidney biopsy was performed, which reported Banff IA acute cellular rejection. He was treated with methylprednisolone 1500 mg, prednisone 50 mg daily, mycophenolate 3000 mg daily, and tacrolimus XL 7 mg daily. A month later the patient presented fever, frontal and retro-ocular headache, with decreased sensitivity in the right side of the face. He is evaluated and diagnosed with acute sinusitis and is started on treatment with amoxicillin. The patient does not improve and begins to present ocular proptosis, edema of the right upper jaw, greenish rhinorrhea, diplopia, epiphora, palate ulcer, seizures and elevations of nitrogen levels. For this reason he is referred to our institution. Upon admission, he was febrile, with edema in the right side of the face, an extensive ulcer on the hard palate, ocular proptosis, ophthalmoplegia, loss of vision in the right eye, and altered kidney function. Brain magnetic resonance imaging was performed, which showed involvement of the paranasal sinuses, right orbit, frontal lobe, cavernous sinuses, right basal ganglia, and ipsilateral thalamus area. With these findings, a diagnosis of MROC was made, for which liposomal amphotericin B was started, immunosuppression was suspended and multidisciplinary radical surgery was performed, where sinusitis drainage, right frontal brain abscess drainage, and extensive soft tissue resection were performed. and bones of the right hemiface, enucleation, tracheostomy and gastrostomy. Cultures and pathology confirm Mucor infection. Additionally, E. cloacae, C. sedlakii, and ESBL (extended spectrum β-lactamase) positive K pneumoniae were isolated.

A control of magnetic resonance images still shows involvement of the disease in the brain. However, given the extent and serious sequelae of a more radical surgery, it was decided to continue with medical management. For this reason, treatment is completed for 6 weeks after radical surgery with liposomal amphotericin B, meropenem, linezolid and posaconazole plus dressings twice a week. He was subsequently discharged with posaconazole 400 mg every 12 hours, cyclosporine 50 mg every 12 hours, prednisone 5 mg daily, and gastrostomy nutrition. Six months later the patient was in good general condition, with no signs of active infection and with acceptable kidney graft function (creatinine of 1.5 mg/dl). He underwent successful surgical reconstruction. Six months after the reconstruction, the patient is in good general condition and is currently planning to finish his facial reconstruction process.