A 74-year-old woman was admitted to our center due to a sensation of rotational vertigo with nausea and vomiting, gait instability, binocular horizontal diplopia, and speech disorders for a week. Her personal history included allergy to iodinated contrast and infiltrating ductal breast carcinoma with positive estrogen and progesterone receptors and negative lymph nodes three years earlier. She performed surgical treatment and radiotherapy of the residual breast. She was currently in remission and was continuing treatment with anastrozole. Her physical examination revealed scanned speech, nystagmus with rapid rotational component in all directions of gaze, right cranial nerve IV paresis, disabling truncal ataxia with inability to walk, and dysmetria in all four extremities. Higher cortical functions were preserved. The general analyzes showed: a normal general biochemical blood count and hemostasis. The usual tumor markers (CA 125, CA 15-3, CA19-9, alpha-fetoprotein, and carcinoembryonic antigen) were normal. A neuroimaging study was performed with computed axial tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain, which were normal. PCD was suspected and anti-Yo antibodies were determined, which were positive at high titers in serum and CSF. While the study for occult neoplasia was being carried out, treatment with immunoglobulins, cyclophosphamide and methylprednisolone was started without evident clinical improvement. Thoracoabdominal CT, mammography, breast MRI and bone scan did not reveal tumor pathology. Positron emission tomography (PET) showed two 15 mm nodular lesions located behind the pancreatic head compatible with mesenteric lymphadenopathy of malignant etiology. No other foci suspicious of malignancy were observed. Laparotomy and biopsy were performed. The pathological study showed the presence of metastases from poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. The diagnosis of breast carcinoma metastasis was considered and the Medical Oncology Service initiated treatment with epirubicin and cyclophosphamide. The patient's clinical evolution was towards stabilization without improvement in signs and symptoms; the patient was not able to carry out activities of daily living alone and needed a wheelchair to get around.