An 81-year-old male, referred from the outpatient clinic to our urology consultations due to symptoms of the lower urinary system. He presents, as a personal history, high blood pressure under treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, surgical intervention for duodenal ulcer in 1961 and cholecystectomy in 2002.
In the abdominopelvic ultrasound, an infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm was diagnosed by chance. Through CT it is discovered that it does not affect the bifurcation of the iliac bones. Likewise, in this examination, the kidneys are observed with a morphology compatible with horseshoe kidneys, with an isthmus located at the level of the infrarenal abdominal aorta. Our case reveals the situation, in principle, most favorable when it comes to the surgical approach, since the aneurysm originates distally, 4 cm, from the exit of the main renal arteries, which are two, one for each renal half. There is no additional artery at the level of the isthmus.
In successive controls, a progressive increase in aortic diameter was evident, which, in a control CT, had reached a maximum diameter of 8 cm.

Given these findings, the vascular surgery service decided to propose surgical treatment of the aneurysm.
On physical examination, pulses were preserved and an expansive abdominal heartbeat was palpable. The rest of the exploration was uninteresting.
As part of the preoperative aneurysm protocol, a baseline echocardiogram and respiratory function tests were performed, all of them without significant alterations.
A retroperitoneal approach was chosen with resection of the infrarenal aortic aneurysm and aorto-aortic bypass with a 16 mm Hemashield prosthesis, without intraoperative complications. And no lumbar or polar arteries are visualized.
The postoperative course passed normally, with no complications arising from the procedure, and the patient maintained adequate kidney function. At discharge he had all pulses.
The patient is asymptomatic in terms of vascular alteration; He maintains all pulses in the lower extremities, with parameters of preserved renal function and a control CT angiography, 6 months after the intervention, shows aorto-aortic bypass without leaks or evidence of areas of aneurysmal dilation.

In turn, an intravenous urography is performed, where the kidneys are observed with horseshoe morphology, pyeloureteral junction in the anterior plane without significant alterations, nor in the collecting systems.