68-year-old woman with headache of one year's duration and frontal protrusion. She had a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus, HTN, extrinsic bronchial asthma, and osteoporosis.
The condition began with headache located in the face and right hemicranium, detecting an increase in ESR and anemia, so empirical treatment with glucocorticoids was initiated due to suspicion of temporal arteritis. At that time, no biopsy of said artery was performed. Four months later the patient suffered bilateral vision loss. On ophthalmoscopic examination there were signs of intracranial hypertension. Brain MRI was performed, which showed diffuse thickening of the calvaria and meninges. Analytically, anemia persisted, with a tendency to macrocytosis. In the CSF analysis, hyperproteinorrachia was found (he was still being treated with corticosteroids) and no malignant cells were observed. After a biopsy of the temporal artery was performed, the existence of arteritis was ruled out and she was referred to our hospital to complete the study.
The aforementioned symptoms were associated with shaking attacks in the right hemibody that subsided with clonazepam, complex visual hallucinations, changes in character with greater irritability and loss of recent memory.
The general physical examination showed an apyretic patient, with cutaneous-mucosal pallor, right frontal protrusion and cutaneous signs of cranial hypervascularization. She had edema in both eyelids and right eyelid ptosis. No lymphadenopathy was palpable. Cardiopulmonary auscultation was normal. On a neurological level she was temporarily disoriented and apathetic. She had muscle fatigue. She scored 19 out of 30 on the Mini-mental test. A decrease in visual acuity was observed in both eyes, to a greater extent in the left (with her right she counted fingers at one meter, with the left at half a meter). The fundus revealed papilledema and bilateral cottony exudates, more marked in the left eye. The motor balance was symmetrical. She walked with short steps with decreased arm movements.

The blood analysis showed GGT 85 IU/l; LDH 779 IU/l; hypoproteinemia (total proteins 5.61 g/dl, albumin 3.4 g/dl); rest of the biochemistry parameters within normality. The blood count showed anemia (Hb 8.6 g/dl) with an inflammatory iron pattern, platelets of 106,000/mm3 and normal leukocytes. Normal hemostasis. Elevated ESR (53 mm/h). Primary hypothyroidism (TSH 1.1 mIU/l, free T4 0.6 ng/dl) and increased PTH (170 pg/ml) were detected. Proteinogram and IEF without pathological findings. Among the tumor markers, only CA 15.3 was elevated (67.4 IU/ml). Cranial CT showed diffuse calvarial thickening suggestive of hyperostosis with more marked dispersed meningeal-dural thickening in the left frontal region. In the lumbar puncture, a clear cerebrospinal fluid was obtained, with mild hyperproteinorrachia (48 mg/dl), glucose 74 mg/dl and 0 cells. No malignant cells were found. CSF cultures were negative. An EEG study was performed that showed diffuse slowing with intermittent slow frontal activities and harmful-irritative signs in the left temporal area. Brain MRI detected diffuse hyperostosis of the cranial calvaria with diffuse abnormal meningeal enhancement more prominent in the left frontal region. The mammogram was normal. Generalized osteosclerosis was observed in the metastatic bone series. Bone scanning showed increased activity in the skull, especially at the fronto-parietal level, compatible with hyperostosis. The iliac crest biopsy showed artefacted trabeculae without hematopoietic activity. The thoraco-abdomino-pelvic CT scan found no alterations.

In the presence of pachymeningitis with secondary hyperostosis without detecting malignant cells in CSF in serial lumbar punctures and without knowledge of the existence of a primary cancer, a biopsy of the cranial bone and meninges was performed with the following anatomical-pathological result: calvaria with hyperostosis , bone marrow and dura mater with extensive infiltration by metastatic adenocarcinoma. The immunohistochemical profile did not point towards the origin of the primary tumor.
Cranial radiotherapy treatment was indicated, which the patient rejected, and palliative treatment was initiated with tamoxifen due to the suspicion of a breast tumor. In fact, a few months after the biopsy, a new thoraco-abdomino-pelvic CT scan was performed, which showed an irregular right axillary nodule. The patient refused aggressive treatments and died at her home two months after discharge, so an autopsy was not performed.