This is a 56-year-old patient, whose personal history of interest had resolved pulmonary tuberculosis; angina pectoris operated on with four aorto-coronary bypasses in 1997, and on antiplatelet treatment, with good control at present; a digestive hemorrhage secondary to a duodenal ulcer due to H. Pylori, treated with triple therapy, in remission with negative breath test controls, and on treatment with proton pump inhibitors (Omeprazole); history of typhoid fever, prostate syndrome under treatment with α-blockers, with an episode of acute prostatitis, which required admission in 2002; obstructive sleep apnea syndrome, treated with CPAP; cholelithiasis; and tonsillectomy in childhood. Recently, and as a result of an abdominal ultrasound, celiac adenopathy was diagnosed, pending identification. As for family history, his father had died from colon cancer.
He went to the consultation for a check-up, presenting prostate symptoms with severe impact on his quality of life (IPSS:22; L:4), a PSA of 1.6 ng/ml, a fibroelastic, non-painful prostate, without palpable indurations, due to Therefore, a transurethral resection (TUR) of the prostate was recommended. The patient delayed it because a laparoscopic cholecystectomy and lymph node biopsy were performed to identify celiac adenopathy, with a diagnosis of reactive lymphoid hyperplasia.
A R.T.U. was subsequently performed. prostate cancer that passed without incident. The histological study demonstrated areas of normal prostate tissue, with dilated glands and normal stroma, muscle and tissue, as well as coagulation alterations due to TUR. Other areas with greater glandular density and lower stromal density, diagnostic of Nodular Hypertrophy of the Prostate. Other areas were seen in which prostate glands were visualized, absence of normal stroma, very dense cell proliferation in the stroma, which with higher magnification allowed the visualization of small, round cells. Which gave us a differential diagnosis between lymphoma, ca. anaplastic small cell tumor, and a primitive neuroectodermal tumor. Therefore, immunohisochemistry techniques were performed. The markers CD 20+, CD 10+, BCL2+, BCL6+, typical of B lymphocytes, follicular origin and non-Hodgkin lymphomas, were positive. A molecular study was performed using PCR, in which translocation 14-18, typical of B lymphomas, was observed. and another translocation characteristic of follicular lymphomas.

With the anatomopathological diagnosis of diffuse small-medium cell lymphoma type b (CD 20+;CD 10+, BCL2+, BCL6+) and benign prostatic hyperplasia. The study was completed by bone marrow biopsy, with no evidence of tumor infiltration. Thoraco-abdominal CT and PET. The CT showed a laterocervical lymphadenopathy, a paravertebral mass, right lower paratracheal lymphadenopathy, cholecystectomy signs, and the PET there was an uptake of the mediastinal lymphadenopathy (right paratracheal), left inguinal and submandibular lymph nodes, uptake at the presacral, subpleural level (D8). ) and axillary. A karyotype was performed with a result of 46XY.

With the diagnosis of Follicular Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Stage IIIEA of the prostate IPI:1 FLIPI:1; Treatment with first-line polychemotherapy was proposed with FMD 6 cycles/ 4 weeks (Fludarabin, Mitoxantrone, Dexamethasone) associated with anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies (rituximab), as prophylactic treatment of Pneumocysti carinii secondary to Fludarabin, treatment with Seprin (Trimetropin sulfamethoxazole) continued. ). For six cycles.
He subsequently attended check-ups without evidence of recurrence, presenting a good response to treatment. Control imaging studies have been performed, using CT and PET, observing the disappearance of the lymphadenopathy. After a 24-month follow-up, the patient remained asymptomatic with no evidence of recurrence.