A 31-year-old woman with a history of multiple sclerosis treated with interferon and bulimia nervosa, diagnosed two years ago, went to the emergency department due to acute abdominal pain after binge eating. She was in individual and group psychotherapeutic treatment. She denies attempted suicide or previous psychiatric admissions. She began binge eating at the age of 15 in relation to the stress caused by exams and since then, her life has revolved around them and purgative behaviors. She states that binge eating interferes with the development of a normal work and social life. Since she started with the eating disorder, the number of binge eats exceeds the monthly frequency. The purgative measures that she usually uses are induced vomiting and laxatives.
The patient went to the emergency room due to intense abdominal pain that had been going on for 7 hours, accompanied by a feeling of fullness, nausea and vomiting. She reports having eaten a large amount of food in the last few hours, after which she has caused herself to vomit on several occasions without being effective.
In the physical examination, she highlights the patient's thinness: height 159 cm, weight 42 kg (BMI: 17), she draws attention to the globular, tympanic abdomen, with few intestinal sounds. Temperature 36.3 oC, blood pressure 125/65 mmHg and heart rate 75 bpm. The plain abdominal x-ray showed the existence of a large gastric dilation.
Lymphocyte count: 19,800 with 93.5% neutrophils. Amylase 286 IU/l, blood glucose: 229 mg/dl, Na: 147 mmol/L, K: 3.2 mmol/L, LDH: 570 and creatine kinase (CK) of 92.
She was prescribed IVs, enemas and nasogastric tube placement. Neither the enemas nor the nasogastric tube were effective.
Ten hours later, the patient enters a state of preshock. The physical examination showed lividity in the lower limbs and weakness of the pedal pulses, as well as a heart rate of 120 bpm, blood pressure of 80/60. Blood glucose: 430 mg/dl, amylase: 1,485 U/l, ALT: 1,008 U/L, LDH: 8,102, CK: 8,310, C-reactive protein: 32 ng/ml and metabolic acidosis with Ph: 7.07, PO2: 32 mmHg, PCO2: 78 mmHg, bicarbonate: 22.6 mEq/l and lactic acid 33 mg/dl.
The CT examination showed large gastric dilation, which occupies most of the abdominal cavity with an air-fluid level and aortic compression. The large gastric dilation compresses the rest of the abdominal structures including the great vessels, aorta and cava and their branches. , this is the cause of the images with low attenuation coefficient that are identified in the pancreas and kidneys in relation to areas of ischemia of said viscera.

Given the severity of the patient, and the lack of improvement with conservative measures, a laparotomy and gastrotomy were performed with extraction of food material (approximately 7 liters) from the gastric chamber, in which a large amount of undigested food remains were found. . Two days later, a control CT scan was performed in which it was possible to verify the significant decrease in volume of the gastric chamber and the restoration of the caliber of the aorta as well as the recovery of normal renal and pancreatic perfusion.
After 4 weeks of admission to the ICU, due to the existence of multiple organ failure in relation to hypo-perfusion of abdominal viscera, acute liver failure due to toxic-ischemic hepatitis and toxic-metabolic encephalopathy, pancreatic ischemia, intestinal ischemia, circulatory shock, ischemia-reperfusion syndrome abdominal pain, acute renal failure and acute respiratory failure, she was discharged from the ICU in good clinical condition.