54-year-old male, smoker 30 cigarettes a day. He consulted for the first time in Urology in May 2000, due to lower urinary tract infection and left renal colic.
Upon rectal examination, a fixed, stony, and irregular prostate is palpated in both lobes. The ultrasound shows no alterations of interest, except for prostate growth for age (prostate of approximately 65 grams). The PSA is 223.
The prostate biopsy detected 6 cylinders markedly infiltrated by a Gleason VII adenocarcinoma. A staging bone scan was performed, which showed no evidence of bone pathology, and complete androgen blockade was initiated with antiandrogens and LH-RH analogues (August 2000).
During follow-up, the PSA levels progressively increased (January 2001: 0.5, August 2001: 0.7, February 2002: 6.4, April 2002: 14), without the patient noticing any worsening of his general condition.
In February and April 2002 he went to the emergency room due to two episodes of hematuria and urine retention, requiring bladder catheterization for a month. He progressively worsened his obstructive symptoms over two months, reaching the point of urinating almost by drip in June 2002. The flowmetric study in May 2002 showed a maximum flow of 2 ml/sec, with a residual of 80 ml. Due to this clearly obstructive worsening of his disease, transurethral resection of the prostate was proposed.
In July 2002, when the resector was introduced to carry out the resection of the prostate, a penile urethra was observed full of mamelonated formations of 0.5-1 cm, polypoid, which made entry to the bladder difficult, because they reduced the caliber. urethral and bleed on friction. The rest of the bulbar and prostatic urethra is normal, the latter somewhat unstructured. R.T.U is not performed. due to difficult vision.

In July 2002, after confirming a PSA of 22, antiandrogens were withdrawn, maintaining the analogues and including the patient in a trial with Atrasentan (M00-244).
The persistence of severe obstructive symptoms justified a resection of the urethral and prostate mamelons, sending both samples separately to the pathological anatomy department to obtain the histological affiliation of the former. Bladder catheterization was maintained for 3 weeks. The histological diagnosis of the urethral tissue was: masses formed exclusively by a Gleason X adenocarcinoma. Regarding the prostate tissue itself, the diagnosis was the same.
At present, the patient is in excellent general condition, attending the relevant consultations as required by the trial protocol, without symptoms derived from his illness.