A 77-year-old man came to the hospital emergency room due to vomiting that had been going on for a week, associated with the absence of bowel movements, with pain in the right inguinal region that had lasted three days. He does not present cognitive impairment but does have serious social impairment. He states that for a year he has only ingested liquids with a weight loss of 15kg during this period (approximate usual weight of 70kg; current weight upon admission of 55kg). He has not left the house for fifteen days with bed-chair life, he lives with his 87-year-old blind wife and has poor body hygiene.
The patient's personal history has unoperated supranasal terebrant basal cell epithelioma and gastric ulcer previously treated with cimetidine.
The physical examination upon admission revealed signs of peripheral hypoperfusion, severe cachexia, and irreducible right inguinoscrotal hernia, with probable intestinal contents and a distended abdomen that was painful on palpation. Intestinal obstruction secondary to an incarcerated inguinal hernia was diagnosed, so it was decided to intervene surgically, performing resection of the ischemic and perforated intestinal segment with side-to-side anastomosis and herniorrhaphy.
During the surgical intervention, diffuse peritonitis and hemodynamic instability were observed. In the presence of signs of shock and decreased level of consciousness despite being without sedation, the patient is admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).
Antibiotic treatment with imipenem was started, presenting a favorable evolution during the first four days, until the beginning of progressive increase in signs of infection and inflammation (leukocytosis of 38,320 leukocytes/mm3 and CRP of 273 mg/L) suggestive of abdominal sepsis, with hemodynamic instability. , acute renal failure (edematous state, anuria and serum creatinine of up to 3.35 mg/dL), sudden anemia (hemoglobin levels of 6.2 g/dL and hematocrit of 18.5%), and output of bile content through the drains. Given these findings, a new surgical intervention is carried out.
From a nutritional point of view, the patient presents severe protein-calorie malnutrition, with severe hypoalbuminemia and hypoproteinemia (albumin 1.4 g/dL and protein 3.7 g/dL), deciding to begin, after hemodynamic stabilization, IV nutritional support from the second day of admission to the unit. Initially, total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is prescribed with a macronutrient intake corresponding to a 70kg patient with severe metabolic stress. The Pharmacy Service identifies the patient as a patient at high risk of suffering from RS, given his cachectic state and the personal history previously described (loss > 20% of body weight in one year, serious psychosocial problems and depression in the elderly). . Given the added complexity of the patient's acute renal failure and the high risk of SR, a progressive start of nutritional support is recommended, adapting the macronutrient intake to the patient's real and non-ideal weight. Taking into account the recommendations of the main clinical guidelines for the prevention of SR6, the prophylactic administration of thiamine is recommended, and parenteral nutrition is started with a caloric intake of approximately 15 kcal/kg of current weight (calorie distribution of 39% carbohydrates, 39 % lipids and 22% proteins), a total volume of approximately 1500 mL and close monitoring of nutritional and analytical parameters (mainly intracellular ions). The intake of phosphate, potassium and magnesium is restricted during the first days, due to hyperphosphatemia (phosphate 8.91 mg/dL), hyperkalemia (potassium 5.27 mEq/L) and hypermagnesemia (magnesium 3 mg/dL) triggered by acute renal failure. . On consecutive days, the caloric-protein intake is slowly increased, taking special care with the nitrogen intake during the first week due to the patient's kidney failure. From the tenth day onwards, the patient's nutritional requirements are finally covered. The energy intake is 30 kcal/kg (calorie distribution of 48% carbohydrates, 30% lipids and 22% proteins), with a protein intake of 1.6g/kg, adapting to the metabolic situation of the patient.
During the first days, the analytical and nutritional parameters evolve favorably in parallel with the improvement in kidney function, until the appearance of abdominal sepsis and all the complications described above.

Given the patient's age, the current illness and the poor prognosis of the complications developed, it was decided in a joint session to limit the therapeutic effort, and he died on the 17th day of admission.