A 35-year-old woman, with no relevant history, presented with abdominal pain, diarrhea and constitutional syndrome, which appeared a few weeks after her first birth; The previous pregnancy had passed without complications. She is studied in the Digestive System Section, being diagnosed with CD by meeting diagnostic criteria: 1) high titer of antitransglutaminase antibodies; and 2) intestinal biopsy with villous atrophy in the duodenum and crypt hyperplasia. Shortly after the aforementioned symptoms, she presented polyarthralgia of the medium joints, predominantly in the carpus and tarsi, along with paresthesias and skin lesions with pruritic micropapules. She was sent to Nephrology for detecting +++ proteinuria. On physical examination: blood pressure 104/76 mmHg, BMI 27, minimal edema in the lower limbs and papules on the elbows and arms. In the analysis: normal blood count and coagulation, creatinine 0.9 mg/dl, total cholesterol 238 mg/dl, triglycerides 104 mg/dl, total proteins 6.5 g/dl and albumin 3.6 g/dl. In the immunological study: ANA, anti-DNA, ANCAS, C3, C4, anticardiolipin antibodies, lupus anticoagulant and cryoglobulins were negative or normal. Serology against HBV, HCV and HIV was negative. Anti-tissue transglutaminase IgA antibodies were positive at a titer of 800 U/ml (normal <7 U/ml). In urine: proteins 4.4 g/day and sediment with 5 red blood cells per field. Kidney ultrasound is normal. Given the persistence of nephrotic proteinuria for several weeks, a percutaneous renal biopsy was performed, the result of which was a stage 2 NM, without vascular or interstitial lesions. She received treatment with a gluten-free diet and other conservative measures with a statin, aspirin at antiplatelet doses, enalapril and losartan, with no initial response. However, at 12 months of follow-up, the negativization of antitransglutaminase antibodies and complete remission of proteinuria were simultaneously observed, as indicated in Figure 1. During this time, no other signs of systemic disease were present, except increased TSH levels 6.6 µU/ml, with T4l of 1.1 ng/dl and negative antithyroglobulin and antimicrosomal antibodies.