68-year-old patient with a history of severe mental retardation and deaf-mute secondary to meningitis in childhood. She consulted our emergency department due to pain and inflammation in the left hemiscrotum lasting more than 3 weeks, which did not subside despite antibiotic and anti-inflammatory treatment. Upon examination, a generalized increase in scrotal content was observed, more marked on the left side, with a testicle that was painful on palpation, firm in consistency, smooth surface, and thickened epididymis.
The right testicle was normal. The urine sediment revealed the presence of pyuria.
Ultrasound revealed an enlarged, heterogeneous left testis, with an area in a medial location with multiple cystic cavities, some of them hypoechoic.
Diagnosed with advanced orchitis, the patient was discharged with analgesic-anti-inflammatory treatment.
After 8 days she went for a check-up at the urology clinic, where upon palpation a nodule was clearly delimited, which suggested a differential diagnosis with testicular neoplasia.
A left radical orchiectomy was performed, after determining tumor markers (b-HCG, alpha-fetoprotein and LDH), which were normal.
Macroscopically, the section surface of the orchiectomy specimen showed a thickening of the tunica albuginea, with hemorrhagic areas. The testicular parenchyma was increased in consistency, with the presence of whitish fibrous tracts and yellowish plaques when cut. Microscopic examination revealed the existence of marked hypospermatogenesis with hyalinization of the seminiferous tubules, as well as a chronic inflammatory process, consisting of histiocytes, abundant plasma cells and giant cells. Inside some of these cells, the characteristic Michaelis-Gutmann bodies with an "owl's eye" appearance were recognized, which tested positive for Von Kossa staining, demonstrating their calcium composition and thus suggesting the diagnosis of MLP.
These inflammatory alterations also partially affected the epididymis.
With the diagnosis of testicular and epididymal MLP, treatment was completed with a regimen of fluoroquinolones for 3 months, after which the evolution is satisfactory and the patient is asymptomatic.