A 71-year-old man was admitted to the Internal Medicine service for a study of constitutional syndrome. Over the course of the previous 6 months he had experienced progressive deterioration manifested by asthenia, anorexia, weight loss of about 20 kg, and inability to ambulate. His personal history included having been a smoker and heavy drinker up to 23 years previously and having type 2 diabetes mellitus and prostatism of approximately 5 years' duration. The physical examination revealed a patient who appeared to have a chronic illness and was bradypsychic, with pale skin and mucous membranes and a generalized decrease in strength in all 4 extremities. No lymphadenopathy. Crackles at the left lung base. Pain on percussion of the spine, more intense at the cervical and dorsal levels. Soft and depressible abdomen, painful on palpation in the right hypochondrium and periumbilical area, where a nodule of hard consistency, fixed to deep planes and approximately 3 x 3 cm, covered with skin of normal characteristics, can be seen upon inspection and palpated. No visceromegaly. Rectal examination with a slightly enlarged prostate, without irregularities, the rest of the physical examination being normal.
The analysis highlights: ALT: 47 U/l; GGT: 259 U/l; Alkaline phosphatases: 277 U/l; Urates 2.29 mg/dl. Moderate leukocytosis and thrombocytosis. ESR 41 mm at the 1st hour. Rest of the general protocol that includes TSH within normality. Ferritin: 515 ng/ml; absence of M component in the proteinogram; normal alpha-fetoprotein; PSA: 11.5 ng/ml (normal values ​​0.4 to 4); Carcinoembryonic antigen: 221 ng/ml (normal values ​​up to 5); and Ca 19.9 of 188 U/ml (normal values ​​up to 37). No 24-hour uricosuria was performed.
The FNA of the periumbilical nodule demonstrated the presence of malignant cells suggestive of adenocarcinoma and after that the search for the primary tumor was carried out with: Chest x-ray that showed an alveolar infiltrate in the left lower lobe; Abdominal ultrasound: poorly assessed due to abdominal air distension, although the periumbilical nodule is appreciated. Bone scintigraphy revealed multiple hyperenhancement accumulations in the axial and peripheral skeleton. The thoraco-abdominal CT revealed the existence of a 1.4 x 1.6 cm nodule in the right upper lobe, which contacts the visceral pleura, which appeared thickened and with lytic lesions in the posterior costal arch. Lytic metastases at the level of the dorsal column and sternum. Minimal bilateral pleural effusion. Multiple focal liver lesions in segment III with vascular pattern compatible with hemangiomas. 1.1 cm lesion in segment IV, probably metastatic. 1.4 cm nodule in the left adrenal gland suggestive of adenoma. Hypodense lesion in the tail of the pancreas measuring 1.7 x 1 cm, possibly related to the primary tumor. Tumor implants in soft tissues, one of them at the periumbilical level, compatible with Sister María José's nodule, and another in the right iliac muscle, with metastatic bone infiltration in the pelvis, sacrum and lumbar vertebrae. After performing the aforementioned imaging techniques, which did not define a clear origin of her carcinomatosis, after 2 weeks of her hospital stay she was transferred to the Palliative Medicine unit, where she died.