A 57-year-old man with a history of chronic active alcoholism and secondary alcoholic liver disease, who required prior admission to the Acute Psychiatry Unit due to manic symptoms related to alcohol intake. He was admitted to Neurology from the emergency room due to a week-long history of progressive deterioration with inability to stand and decreased level of consciousness in the last 24 hours. The patient was afebrile, with a BP of 120/75 mmHg, tachycardic, tachypneic, and jaundiced. Cardiopulmonary auscultation was normal. Neurologically, he presented drowsiness, mild bilateral mydriasis, bilateral facial weakness with the rest of the cranial nerves normal, muscle weakness in all four extremities (lack of collaboration to balance) and generalized hyporeflexia. No tremor or agitation were observed. The emergency analysis revealed: elevated blood glucose (233 mg/dL), normal renal function, hypokalemia, metabolic acidosis with normal lactate and respiratory alkalosis (pH: 7.3, bicarbonate: 11.9 mmol/L, base excess: -14.4 mmol/L, pO2: 104 mmHg, pCO2: 24 mmHg, Lactate: 2.8 mmol/L). Treatment was initiated with intravenous hydration (5% dextrose and saline), potassium (K) replacement, parenteral thiamine administration, and antihepatic encephalopathy measures. Already on the hospitalization ward, the patient's neurological situation was similar. Analytical control showed aggravation of hypokalemia, severe hypophosphatemia, mild hypomagnesemia, hypernatremia, persistence of acid-base balance alterations, and presence of methyl ketone in urine. We do not have chlorine levels upon admission to calculate the GAP anion, nor ketone bodies in the blood. The electrocardiogram corresponded to sinus rhythm and did not present alterations associated with electrolyte deficits.
At that time, the Nutrition Unit is consulted to collaborate in the management of the patient. Hydration was continued only with 5% dextrose, without saline, the administration of parenteral thiamine already started in the emergency room at a dose of 100 mg/day was maintained, and aggressive replacement of the various deficiencies was carried out intravenously. Initially, 40 mmol of monopotassium phosphate was administered in 6 hours (corresponding in our case to about 0.55 mmol of P/kg of weight), after which a perfusion of 5% glucose with 140 mEq of chloride was prescribed. potassium (2 mEq of K/kg of weight) and 24 mEq of Mg (3 g of magnesium sulfate) in the following 24 hours. At the end of this period, the acid-base balance abnormalities and hypernatremia had been corrected. However, it was necessary to maintain this high replacement rate of P (0.55 mmol of P/kg/day) and K (2 mEq of K/kg/day between potassium chloride and monopotassium phosphate) for 72 hours to achieve normalization. Figure 1 shows the daily evolution of serum levels of K, P and Mg until their complete correction. The analytical improvement was accompanied by clinical improvement, which allowed oral supplementation with progressive withdrawal of parenteral contributions.

Simultaneously, the Neurology Service continued carrying out diagnostic studies. In the computed axial tomography there were no signs of acute endocranial pathology, although there were evident signs of corticosubcortical atrophy. The cerebrospinal fluid had a slightly xanthochromic appearance, without cells, with glucose 101 mg/dL, protein 95 mg/dL, and Adenosine deaminase 5.5 IU/L. The electroencephalogram showed rapid low-voltage base activity, without asymmetries, focalities or triphasic components; and the electromyogram suggested polyradicular sensory-motor involvement, predominantly axonal, severe in the lower extremities (LEII) and mild in the upper extremities (EESS).
At the time of discharge the patient was fully alert, with 4/5 weakness in EESS and EEII. The definitive diagnoses were: alcoholic ketoacidosis (AAC), severe hypophosphatemia and hypokalaemia, mild hypomagnesemia, and confusional syndrome and acute axonal sensorimotor polyradiculoneuritis secondary to severe hypophosphatemia.