We present the case of a 47-year-old man with no family history of FD who was being monitored in the outpatient clinic of our service since 2002 for proteinuria. In 2006, abdominal ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed poor cortico-medullary differentiation and the presence of multiple bilateral parapelvic cysts. In 2007, due to deterioration of kidney function with serum creatinine levels of 1.6 mg/dl and proteinuria of 1 g/24 h, it was decided to perform an ultrasound-guided kidney biopsy, which revealed changes consistent with moderate-severe interstitial nephritis. chronicle. In 2009, the patient was admitted due to edema and dyspnea on exertion. The examination did not show skin lesions suggestive of angiokeratomas on the skin. The admission analysis showed a serum creatinine of 1.7 mg/dl and proteinuria of 2.4 g/24 h. The findings on the echocardiogram and cardiac MRI showed probable cardiomyopathy due to storage disease. Electromyography showed signs of small fiber neuropathy, with alterations in autonomic function. A sweat test was performed that did not collect sweat after stimulation with pilocarpine, and an ophthalmological study revealed cornea verticillata.

Given the clinical suspicion of FD, the level of alpha galactosidase activity was determined in leukocytes and plasma, using a fluorogenic substrate 4-methyilumbelliferyl α-D-galactosidase. GLA activity was 0.5 nmol/h/ml (2% of normal) in plasma, and /4.2 nmol/h/mg protein (10.7% of normal) in leukocytes, which confirms the diagnosis of FD. The activity of the enzyme was normal in the patient's studied relatives (mother and sister). Genetic study was performed, genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) was extracted from dried blood spot and coding gene fragments were amplified by PCR. Direct sequencing of the 7 exons of the GLA gene was performed using a capillary sequencer (ABI PRISM® 310 Genetic Analyzer). The analysis determined that the patient was homozygous for a new c.1182del mutation (single nucleotide deletion) in exon 7 of the alpha-GLA A gene. The patient's mother and sister were investigated and were negative for this mutation. The remaining siblings were not available for the study, but none of them have manifested clinical symptoms associated with the disease to date. The patient has a male child, so the mutation is not transmitted to the offspring. Hormone replacement therapy with agalsidase alfa (Replagal®) was initiated. During follow-up, edema and neuropathic pain improved, but renal function progressively worsened to end-stage renal failure over a 3-year period. The patient began hemodialysis, and a year later, he received a living donor kidney graft from his wife. During post-transplant follow-up, the patient has remained with stable renal function with an estimated glomerular filtration rate of 45 ml/min/1.73 m2, with proteinuria of 200 mg/24 h. Follow-up biopsies have been performed at 3 months and one year, which have not shown Gb3 deposits in the kidney tissue. Regarding the cardiac evolution, clinically he has presented the appearance of dyspnea on exertion, in addition to worsening of myocardial fibrosis, assessed by cardiac resonance performed in February 2014. It was decided to change treatment to agalsidase beta (Fabrazyme®), since then.