A 72-year-old female patient, with a history of long-standing rheumatoid arthritis, being treated with NSAIDs and being studied for chronic diarrhea of ​​several months' duration, by the Digestology Service of another center. During a diagnostic colonoscopy, the patient suffered an iatrogenic perforation of the descending colon, which is why she was urgently referred to our center. With the diagnosis of intestinal perforation, the patient underwent emergency surgery by the General Surgery team, performing a midline laparotomy with primary suturing of the descending colon. After intraoperative probing of the patient, the immediate appearance of frank hematuria occurred, which is why we were consulted. After initially evaluating the patient and in the absence of other associated symptoms, it was decided to manage conservatively and see the evolution. In the hours after the intervention, the intensity of the hematuria increased, establishing continuous bladder lavage and intravenous treatment with E-aminocaproic acid, which did not resolve the condition, producing a progressive anemia condition that required the transfusion of six units of packed red blood cells. in the following days. Subsequently, the intensity of the hematuria subsided, although in the two weeks after the intervention, it recurred in the form of self-limited episodes that partially subsided with conservative measures. Six days after the intervention, an ultrasound was performed, which showed bladder occupation due to an image that suggested a clot, and cystoscopy, which was inconclusive due to intraluminal occupation by a large clot. During the examination, an attempt at lavage was made, which was unsuccessful due to pain; only the trigonal area was explored, and a filiform clot was seen protruding from the left ureteral meatus. Imaging tests were requested: intravenous urography that showed the normality of both ureteropielocalyceal systems, which appeared discretely ectatic due to the presence of multiple intravesical filling defects that suggested the presence of the already known clot. The CT scan did not provide more information, with findings similar to the previous examination, ruling out pathology of the upper urinary tract.

Given the persistence of the episodes of hematuria and the emission of clots, an examination was scheduled under general anesthesia, and after extensive washing with Ellick, the presence of an excrescent lesion with an apparently tumorous appearance that was hanging down from the dome along the entire posterior wall, respecting the only the trigonal-peritrigonal area. Given the suspicion of a bladder tumor, extensive transurethral resection was performed, leaving the lesion flat. The anatomo-pathological study of the submitted material showed the presence of amyloid material that was distributed around the submucosal vessels, as we can see in the hematoxylin-eosin staining. The eosinophilic character of this material was also revealed by Congo red staining. On the other hand, the immunohistochemical study of the material, with specific monoclonal antibodies (clone mcl) against the amyloid AA protein, confirmed that the submucosal perivascular deposits corresponded to AA amyloid that were characteristically stained by immunoperoxidase reaction. With all these findings, the diagnosis of secondary bladder amyloidosis was made.

The patient's post-operative evolution was favorable and she was discharged on the 10th day after the intervention and subsequently followed up in our outpatient clinics. Currently, the patient's follow-up is 30 months, with cystoscopies performed quarterly during the first year, and semiannual during the second, without any recurrence of the disease having occurred to date. Only focal areas of amyloid material in the mucosa were seen in the first cystoscopic controls, which have not generated any subsequent complications.