A 29-year-old patient who came to the Emergency Department of our Hospital due to the presence of a mildly painful erection that had been going on for ten hours. The patient reports having had four similar episodes in the last three months but in all of them the erection had subsided within three or four hours at most.
The patient denies any history of penile trauma, drug use or other medications including intracavernosal injections. Likewise, he does not present any other accompanying symptoms such as asthenia, anorexia or fever.
A gasometry is performed on the blood extracted from the corpora cavernosa, obtaining analytical results for venous blood (pCO2 163.1 mmHg, HCO3 13.2 mEq/l plasma).
Given this long-lasting priapism and the absence of signs that make us think of high-flow priapism, we proceed to try to reverse the erection as soon as possible, in order to calm the pain and avoid irreversible damage to the corpora cavernosa. .
A 19 G intravenous catheter is punctured in both corpora cavernosa, aspirating blood repeatedly and allowing it to drip. After this first step, there is no reduction in the erection, so a solution of phenylephrine (alpha-adrenergic agonist) is prepared in saline at a concentration of 0.1 mg/ml. 2 ml of the solution is injected into the corpus cavernosum, subsequently compressing. This maneuver is repeated again in the contralateral corpus cavernosum. In the absence of response, a new phenylephrine solution is made, mixing 10 mg of phenylephrine in 11 mg of saline solution and 20-30 ml of this solution is introduced into each of the corpora cavernosa to wash them. After repeating this last maneuver several times, it is finally possible to obtain penile flaccidity.
During his stay in the emergency room and after achieving flaccidity, blood tests were taken that revealed a marked increase in the numbers of leukocytes (414 x 109/L) and platelets (1100 x 109/L) in the blood.
If a myeloproliferative syndrome is suspected, the Hematology Service is consulted, which diagnoses chronic myeloid leukemia.

Subsequently, the patient undergoes an allogeneic bone marrow transplant from an HLA-identical family donor. The evolution of his hematological disease is favorable, leaving the priapism condition completely resolved after treating the chronic myeloid leukemia and without any alteration in sexual potency.