An 80-year-old man with a history of TURP 3 years ago presented with urinary frequency, hypogastric pain and fever lasting 48 hours one month after undergoing surgery for an incarcerated right inguinal hernia. Upon questioning, he reported progressive worsening of his urinary stream in recent months. Physical examination revealed a ballooning bladder, minimal serous discharge from the inguinal wound, and painful induration of the penile base.
A cystostomy tube was placed due to the impossibility of urethral catheterization and with analysis showing leukocytosis with a deviation to the left and urine sediment positive for gram-negative bacilli, he was admitted for intravenous antibiotic treatment and study.
After presenting clinical and analytical improvement, an abdominal ultrasound was performed which showed subscarring seroma at the right inguinal level and cystography through a cystostomy tube where an extravasation was observed in the proximal penile urethra.

Once the febrile UTI was treated with a positive urine culture for multisensitive E. Coli, the patient was discharged. During the control visit, the patient reported significant perineal pain that he had been treating with anti-inflammatories and provided the anatomo-pathological report from the surgery service where he had undergone inguinal hernia surgery, reporting that the resected material was moderately squamous cell carcinoma adenopathy. differentiated. At that time, it was diagnosed as a possible squamous cell carcinoma of the urethra with inguinal adenopathy and an extension study was performed.
Pelvic MRI showed a 3 cm collection between the urethra and corpora cavernosa as well as right inguinal lymphadenopathy.

Thoraco-abdominal CT showed a single subpleural lesion in the upper lobe of the right lung suggestive of metastasis, without the presence of lymphadenopathy.
The patient was admitted due to poor control of perineal pain and the appearance of several nodular skin lesions in the pubis and right thigh.

The biopsy of one of these lesions was positive for squamous cell carcinoma.
The patient underwent 6 cycles of palliative polychemotherapy with cisplatin + 5-fluoracil (CDDP 137 mg-5FU 6839 mg) with good tolerance and good initial clinical response with improvement in asthenia, partial regression of fatalities and disappearance of the lung lesion. . One month after finishing chemotherapy, the disease progressed early with the appearance of a greater number of skin lesions. He then underwent palliative radiotherapy, achieving better control of perineal pain and little response to fatalities. He is currently being treated with morphine and followed by a palliative care team at home, 9 months after the diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma.