29-year-old woman diagnosed with CKD secondary to FSGS. She was admitted for hemodialysis at age 25. Three years after hemodialysis she presents severe secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) with PTH i > 1,000 pg/ml, with bone pain, asthenia, pruritus and persistent symptomatic arterial hypotension. She does not present arterial or echocardiographic calcifications. Parathyroid ultrasound was performed without visualization and scintillation with 99Tc and MIBI with diffuse enhancement of the fixation of the left and right inferior parathyroid lobe. She treated her HPTS with calcium chelators and discontinued it with i.v. calcitriol. due to hyperphosphatemia. Subtotal parathyroidectomy is indicated considering the patient's age and her suitability for transplant. The results of the previous laboratory tests were: Hct 37%, Hb 12.1, Ca 9 mg/dl, P 6 mg/dl, K 5 meq/l. Normal coagulogram. Parathyroid biopsy: bilateral hyperplasia. During surgery she was hypotensive (average BP 90/60). Six days after surgery she presented partial loss of vision in the RE and total vision in the LE, moderate hypo-Ca and symptomatic hypotension. Laboratory: Hct 36%, Hb 12, Ca 6.3 Ca i 0.72l, P 3.5, Mg 1.9. Hypo-Ca values ​​are corrected.
Normal collagenogram and coagulogram, and anticardiolipins, lupus anticoagulant, ANCAp and c and serology for toxoplasmosis and syphilis were negative.
A consultation with neurology was made: she presented with right nasal hemianopsia and vision with a lump in the left eye. Discor pupils in OD 3 mm, OI 4 mm. Consultation with ophthalmology: VA with finger counting vision at 50 cm in LE and moderate vision loss in RE. Mydriasis are active in LE, reactive in RE. Fundus of the eye: applied retina, normal macula and congestive papilla with incipient edema (LE and R). PO 10/10 mmHg. MRI of brain and medulla normal. Visual evoked potentials in RE and LE of medium amplitude and prolonged central latencies compatible with compromises of the optic pathway of moderate degree, compatible with optic neuropathy. Visual acuity: 0.5 in LE, 0.8 in OD. Campimetry: outside normal limits for the RE with altered relative sensitivity and restriction of the blind spot (increased). In OI there is a total reduction in sensitivity.
Corticosteroids (prednisone) are indicated as treatment at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day for 30 days.
It evolves with increased papillary edema in both eyes and clinically with vision lump in the RE and amaurosis of the LE.
In the fundus examination at 2 months, almost total atrophy of the right optic nerve was detected with dilation and venous tortuosity and total atrophy of the left optic nerve.