An 81-year-old man with a history of chronic atrial fibrillation presented to our hospital with progressive dyspnea for 2 months, accompanied by asthenia and unquantified weight loss. The patient was afebrile, with signs of right pleural effusion. The chest x-ray confirmed pleural effusion and mediastinal widening without involvement of the lung parenchyma. The blood test was normal. Thoracentesis showed a thick, milky-looking fluid with 1400 leukocytes/mm3 with 10% neutrophils and 90% lymphocytes, protein 49 g/L (pleuroplasmic ratio: 0.66), LDH 262 U/L (pleuroplasmic ratio: 0). .75), glucose 10.2 mmol/L, ADA 16 U/L, cholesterol 1.75 mmol/L and triglycerides 12.8 mmol/L. Cytology and conventional culture were negative. Mantoux intradermal reaction was negative.
Fiberoptic bronchoscopy did not show endobronchial lesions. Ziehl-Neelsen staining and culture in Löwenstein-Jensen medium of the bronchoalveolar lavage were negative. A thoracoabdominal CT showed multiple adenopathic masses in the mediastinum and bilateral pleural effusion, predominantly right. A CT-guided fine needle puncture-aspiration of the mediastinal mass was performed, without being able to collect a lymph node tissue sample. Thoracoscopy was then performed with pleural and lung biopsy, and placement of a pleural drainage tube. The pathological anatomy showed chronic granulomatous lesions compatible with tuberculosis in both the pleura and lung. The PCR for Mycobacterium tuberculosis was positive in the lung biopsy and negative in the pleura. Treatment was started with Isoniazid 300 mg/day, Rifampicin 600 mg/day and Pyrazinamide 1250 mg/day. Despite the treatment instituted, the patient presented clinical worsening and respiratory failure, resulting in death. An autopsy was performed, which reported bilateral chylothorax, chronic caseating granulomatous lymphadenitis compatible with tuberculosis of the mediastinal lymph nodes, and bilateral pleuropulmonary, hepatic, left adrenal, and renal miliary dissemination.