A 51-year-old woman with no relevant history was admitted for stroke with dysnomia and right paresis, with scans and magnetic resonance imaging demonstrating multiple ischemic foci, suggesting embolic origin.
On admission she was afebrile, with blood pressure 120/60 mmHg, she was notable on neurological examination, reduced verbal fluency with frequent paraphasias, right central facial, a right brachio-crural motor deficit and an indifferent right plantar response. The systemic examination was normal except for petechiae in the tibial region of the right lower extremity and splinter hemorrhages in several fingers of both hands.
The analysis was normal except for an increase in acute phase reactants. The electrocardiogram, transcranial Doppler, continuous carotid Doppler and fundus were normal. Cardiac, transthoracic and transesophageal ultrasound showed a patent foramen ovale, mitral prolapse and a 15 millimeter wart on the posterior mitral leaflet with mild mitral regurgitation (MR). With the suspicion of subacute bacterial endocarditis, empirical antibiotic treatment with Vancomycin and Gentamicin was initiated after obtaining blood cultures, with the patient being afebrile, a situation in which she remained during admission.
The chest x-ray showed a nodule in the left lower lobe (LII), which was later confirmed on a scanner as a 3.5 centimeter mass in the LII, satellite nodules, contralateral lymphadenopathy and carcinomatous lymphangitis suggestive of a neoplastic process.
Seven days after starting antibiotic treatment, after knowing the negative results of the cultures, a control echocardiogram was performed in which the appearance of a new wart (5.7 mm) and a decrease in size of the previous wart was observed ( 9.1 mm) New blood cultures are performed to influence the differential diagnosis of endocarditis with negative cultures (HACEK, fungi) and serologies for Legionella, Bartonella, Coxiella, Chlamidias, Mycoplasma...
On the 8th day after the start of treatment, she presented non-specific pain in the left hypochondrium, and an abdominal ultrasound was performed with the suspicion of splenic embolism, and no pathology was found.
On the 9th day she presented syncopal symptoms in the context of a transient ischemic attack (transient weakness of the left upper extremity).
On the 11th day, she presented a significant clinical deterioration due to ictal symptoms with total involvement of the anterior circulation of the left middle cerebral artery (global aphasia, visual inattention and right hemiplegia). In the control echocardiogram, progression of the previous lesions and a new wart on the atrial side of the mitral valve were observed.
Given the poor clinical and echocardiographic evolution, the diagnosis of NBTE was proposed and a biopsy of the lung mass was performed, which turned out to be an adenocarcinoma. Treatment with intravenous (IV) heparin was initiated given the association of NBTE and hypercoagulability, observing the onset of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) with an increase in fibrinogen and PDF.
Hypercoagulability studies, cryoglobulinemia markers, antiphospholipid, HIV, HBV, HCV and ANA were negative, as were the 12 blood culture samples and the different serologies mentioned above.
The age, sex of the patient and the presence of high tumor markers CA 12.5 and CA 15.3 led us to search for a primary adenocarcinoma in the breast and ovary without finding any findings.
No clinical improvement was observed, but radiological worsening was observed despite starting treatment with IV heparin.
The patient was diagnosed with stage IV lung adenocarcinoma with emboligenic phenomena in the context of paraneoplasia. The patient's situation with a PS4 contraindicated any chemotherapy treatment with palliative intent, being only subsidiary to palliative symptomatic treatment. In this context, the patient is transferred to the Palliative Unit.