A 78-year-old man with a personal history of allergy to sulfonamides and thiazides, ex-smoker and ex-drinker, chronic bronchitis with home oxygen, chronic atrial fibrillation, peripheral arterial disease, and chronic venous insufficiency. His usual treatment was furosemide, pentoxifylline, acenocoumarol, omeprazole, oral iron and paracetamol. He was admitted to our Hospital for antibiotic treatment and treatment of mixed ulcers with a torpid evolution.
Physical examination on admission: blood pressure 100/61 mmHg, mixed ulcers with exudate on both lower extremities; rest of the exploration without interest.
The blood analysis on admission was: creatinine 1.5 mg/dl (previous 1.4-1.6 mg/dl) (Cockcroft-Gault 28 ml/min), uric acid 9.4 mg/dl, albumin 3, 2 g/dl, hematocrit 27.8%, hemoglobin 8.9 g/dl, rest of the blood tests normal. The culture of the ulcer exudate was positive for Pseudomona aeruginosa and Streptococcus beta non-A non-B sensitive to cefepime.
Antibiotic treatment was instituted with cefepime at a dose of 2 grams every 8 hours i.v. for 10 days. On the fourth day of antibiotic treatment, renal function remained stable with serum creatinine of 1.4 mg/day. On the tenth day of treatment with cefepime (when the antibiotic was suspended) it was confirmed that there was a previous deterioration of renal function, with serum creatinine of 2.8 mg/dl. One day after suspending cefepime, this deterioration in kidney function persisted and the patient also presented with confusion and restlessness, which is why the Nephrology and Neurology Services were consulted.
The anamnesis was impossible to perform due to the patient's excitability and restlessness. Fluoride therapy with isotonic saline solution was instituted. Renal ultrasound showed reduced kidney size (8 cm).
An electroencephalogram (EEG) was performed, which was pathological, with the presence of bilateral electrical status (constant bilateral discharges of slow, sharp and triphasic waves). A brain computed tomography was also performed with the only finding of cortico-subcortical atrophy.
Given the suspicion of neurotoxicity caused by cefepime, phenytoin was prescribed with a loading dose of 1000 mg i.v. and subsequently 100 mg/8 hours IV, and urgent hemodialysis was performed through a catheter in the left femoral vein for 3 hours. Plasma levels of cefepime were quantified predialysis (24 hours after the antibiotic was suspended), which were 50.087 µg/ml. After the first dialysis session the patient felt calmer and more awake.
Given the clinical improvement after the first dialysis session and considering the high mortality rate related to neurotoxicity linked to cefepime, three more hemodialysis sessions were performed, with undetectable levels of predialysis cefepime from the fourth session.
The new EEG, after 4 dialysis sessions, showed a spectacular improvement compared to the previous record. After three days without dialysis, serum creatinine remained at 2.7 mg/dl.
One week after hospital discharge, recovery of kidney function (creatinine 1.6 mg/dl) was observed in the outpatient clinic, which persists at these levels two months after discharge.