A 56-year-old man with a personal history of alcoholic hepatitis was admitted in 1995 for study of nephrotic syndrome, microhematuria, and renal failure (creatinine 1.5 mg/dl). His physical examination revealed the presence of edema, hepatomegaly, and purpuric lesions in the lower limbs. In the study carried out, positive serology for HCV was observed, the rest of the serologies were negative and cryoglobulins were positive. A renal biopsy was performed that showed a renal parenchyma with seven glomeruli with diffuse involvement, increased cellularity and a lobular-appearing mesangial matrix, basement membranes with double contour images, irregular thickening of the capillary walls and interstitial fibrosis. Direct immunofluorescence showed granular parietal glomerular deposits of C3 and electron microscopy showed subendothelial deposits, swollen endothelia and mesangial enlargement. The patient was diagnosed with HCV-associated MPGN with positive cryoglobulins.

The patient was referred to the Digestive System Clinic to jointly assess HCV treatment. A liver biopsy was performed, which revealed liver cirrhosis (P-3, L-2, F-3). With these results, treatment with interferon alfa was initiated, initially without achieving a sustained viral response, and subsequently in its pegylated form for 48 weeks, achieving negativization of the viral load. Four months after the end of treatment, he presented an episode of acute pericarditis with the presence of HCV in the pericardial fluid coinciding with a new increase in viral load. The patient had had poor clinical tolerance to both previous treatments and it was decided not to start new therapies. As other complications, he presented inflammatory arthritis of large joints.
From a renal point of view, antiproteinuric treatment was instituted with blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, despite which the patient developed progressive renal failure and finally started hemodialysis in 2007. In November 2009 he received his first kidney transplant from a deceased donor. due to a spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage. The donor had an HLA typing: DR1, DRX, B14, B35, A11, A30 and a history of alcoholism, with creatinine at the time of extraction of 1 mg/dl and negative proteinuria. Immunosuppression was performed with corticosteroids, mycophenolic acid and tacrolimus. Renal progress was excellent and he showed immediate renal function. Thirteen months after the transplant, the patient developed non-nephrotic proteinuria and microhematuria with blood casts, but maintained normal renal function. An autoimmunity study, donor-specific antibodies, as well as antigenemia for cytomegalovirus and serum PCR (polymerase enzyme chain reaction) for the BK virus were performed, which were negative, and the renal echo-Doppler was normal. Given the suspicion of recurrence of his underlying disease, it was decided to perform a kidney biopsy. Optical microscopy revealed a renal parenchyma with ten glomeruli with marked mesangial enlargement, mild fibrosis and tubular atrophy. Immunofluorescence observed granular mesangial deposits of IgA and C3, and electron microscopy showed mesangial enlargement of cells and matrix with abundant homogeneous electron-dense deposits. Immunohistochemistry techniques for C4d were negative. De novo IgA mesangial GN was diagnosed in the graft, increasing the dose of corticosteroids and mycophenolic acid without clinical-biochemical improvement. After the start of antiproteinuric treatment, with blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system using an angiotensin II receptor antagonist (ARA II) and the subsequent association of spironolactone, negativity of proteinuria was achieved, although with a slight deterioration of the kidney function, currently stabilized.