A 44-year-old man with Crohn's disease diagnosed 15 years earlier, was admitted to the General Surgery service due to a week-long history of abdominal pain and diarrhea, compatible with an outbreak of his disease. Under home treatment with corticosteroids and mesalazine, the patient has had an ileostomy for 2 years after undergoing a subtotal colectomy, with a closed rectal stump following an outbreak of his disease. Previously, several resection operations had been performed, such as the removal of the last 40 centimeters of the ileum, ileocecal valve and cecum, after an ileocecal perforation, as well as other interventions for anal fistula with gluteal abscess, for its corresponding drainage. During the current hospitalization, he developed a polymicrobial perianal infection resistant to medical treatment with antibiotics, for which he underwent surgery in which an abdominoperineal amputation was performed, resecting his rectum. The postoperative course was uneventful until on the tenth day he suffered a generalized tonic-clonic seizure lasting 3 minutes, without sphincter incontinence. A general biochemistry was performed which revealed a calcium corrected by albumin of 8.42 mg/dl (rn: 8.7-10.6), K 2.6 mg/dl (rn: 3.6-4 .9), albumin 2.5 mg/dl (rn 4-5.2), glucose and sodium within reference values. Subsequently, a cranial CT scan was performed in which no abnormalities were observed. He presented an electrocardiogram on the day of admission with a normal sinus rhythm at 79 bpm, without QT or PR space prolongation. Two days later he again had a generalized tonic-clonic seizure lasting one minute. After being evaluated by the Neurology Service, an electroencephalogram was performed, which turned out to be a tracing without pathological findings, and treatment with carbamazepine was started. Given the persistence of seizures with the same characteristics despite medical treatment, a 24-hour electroencephalographic recording was performed in which no alterations were evident. Given that the patient presents signs of dehydration and malnutrition, as well as decreased intake and asthenia, a consultation was made with the Nutrition Unit to assess nutritional support if necessary.
In the directed interrogation, he reported paresthesias in the lower limbs that he lately perceived more as intense itching, without other symptoms. Likewise, he reports that he has had 3 convulsive episodes with characteristics similar to the current ones in the last 5 months, without subsequent clinical repercussions, consulting on one occasion in the Emergency Department, where, since it was the first convulsive episode, antiepileptic treatment was not prescribed.
On examination, the patient weighs 55.1 kg and is 172 centimeters tall (BMI 18.63 kg/m2). He reports a weight loss of 7 kg in the last 6 months, which represents a weight loss/time index of 15.23%, which implies severe malnutrition. The examination revealed mild cutaneous-mucosal dehydration and a moderate decrease in fat and muscle mass, which was subsequently diagnosed as moderate mixed energy-protein malnutrition, according to the anthropometric and biochemical parameters of the classic nutritional assessment. The rest of the physical examination was normal, with no clinical signs of hypocalcemia or hypomagnesemia such as Trosseau's sign, Chovstek's sign, muscle spasms, tremor, or tendon hyporeflexia.
When taking his dietary history for the months prior to admission, it was seen that he had had insufficient caloric intake for his needs and that he was also deficient in certain food groups such as dairy products, fruits, vegetables and red meat.
Given the existence of dehydration with negative water balances due to a high discharge from the ileostomy, and low levels of electrolytes in the blood, monitored treatment is started parenterally, to replace volume, electrolytes, and other micronutrients, including phosphorus and magnesium. Previously, a blood draw was performed to determine these micronutrients due to the suspicion of a possible deficiency. That same day the patient suffers a seizure similar to the previous ones. In the analysis carried out, he presented a magnesium of 0.76 mg/dl (rn: 2.40-5.40) with phosphorus, calcium, potassium and sodium within the reference values. A perfusion with high doses of magnesium sulfate is prescribed with the progressive normalization of its blood levels, with the provision of magnesium lactate in high doses orally being sufficient for maintenance treatment. After stabilizing the numbers with oral intake, the antiepileptic medication was withdrawn, and no more episodes of seizures appeared.