A 57-year-old patient was referred to the emergency room of our hospital by his family doctor because of pain in the glans penis for a week, with progressive appearance of a reddened lesion that affects its distal portion, covered in fibrin, necrotic in appearance, with a large component exudative and that impresses with a thrombotic process. His personal history includes venous insufficiency with trophic alterations in the lower extremities. A smoker of 40 cigarettes a day for many years, he was diagnosed in the urology service three months ago with benign prostatic hyperplasia secondary to medical treatment. During the diagnostic assessment of BPH, TR, PSA determination, ultrasound, etc. were performed. without these studies providing anomalies worthy of mention.
The current examination shows that the anterior two-thirds of the glans are swollen, hardened, with a necrotic appearance and abundant exudate and fibrin that covers the area.

Given the normality of the urological studies and the total disorientation regarding the morbid process, a minimal biopsy of the lesion was taken. We are informed of phenomena of necrosis, dense acute and chronic inflammatory infiltrate and thrombosis of the dermis. In this situation of ignorance of the morbid process, but in the face of a necrotic process that does not improve with the symptomatic treatments established, partial amputation of the penis is indicated. The glans is removed with a small portion of the corpora cavernosa. The pathological anatomy service informs us of the presence of tumor thrombosis of the corpora cavernosa compatible with metastasis from squamous cell carcinoma.

Given this unusual situation, we proceeded to locate the primitive tumor and study its extension.
The abdominal CT scan reveals small subcentimeter para-aortic, inter-aorto-caval lymphadenopathy and at the root of the mesentery at the retroperitoneal level. Rest within normal limits.
Complementary studies continue in search of the primitive neoplasia, at the same time that an evaluation is requested by the Traumatology Service of shoulder pain of sudden onset and severe intensity. The referred pain is explained by the existence of a pathological fracture at the level of the upper third of the right humerus due to a typical radiological lesion of bone metastasis. Bone scintigraphy corroborates the diagnosis of bone metastasis at the level of the proximal third of the humerus, without other distant pathological deposits. The studies follow one another and the evaluation by the Otorhinolaryngology Service is absolutely normal. The Digestive Service enters the fray and performs an endoscopic study and discovers a mamelonated and ulcerated mass of 3 centimeters in diameter at the level of the cardia that corresponds to gastric infiltration by a moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus.

Polychemotherapy treatment is started but the patient's condition progressively worsens and he dies a few months later.