A 74-year-old man presented to the Emergency Department with a 48-hour history of hypogastric pain, fever, and dysuria. His personal history included arterial hypertension treated with captopril, hyperlipidemia treated with atorvastatin, and hyperuricemia treated with allopurinol. On physical examination we observed a large, painful, palpable mass occupying the hypogastrium and both iliac fossae. The blood test shows 25,930 leukocytes with a marked left deviation and the urinary sediment analysis shows 3-5 leukocytes/field, microhematuria with positive nitrites on the test strip. An abdominal ultrasound was requested and reported a possible abscess in the hypogastrium measuring 15 x 9.2 x 7.3 cm. The study is completed with an abdomino-pelvic CT that shows an image with a fluid level of 15 x 9 x 8 cm in the hypogastrium, superior to the bladder dome, in close relationship with the ileocecal area, compatible with an abscess superimposed on a benign neoformation process or malignant of the area.

With the diagnostic hypothesis of an infected urachus cyst, percutaneous drainage was performed with sampling for microbiology and broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotic therapy was instituted. Leuconostoc spp, Streptococcus intermedius, Clostridium perfringens, Escherichia Coli, Bacteroides ovatus, Corynebacterium spp were isolated in the serial cultures. and Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
During admission, the study is completed with a new CT scan, which does not provide new information with respect to the previous one; opaque enema, which does not provide information about the origin of the condition; colonoscopy, which does not reveal alterations at the colonic level, and cystoscopy, in which the intact bladder mucosa is observed.
Once the study is completed, an exploratory laparotomy of the lesion is decided. After performing midline laparotomy, a mass independent of the bladder was observed, intensely adhered to intestinal loops and cecum.

It is excised, resulting in its accidental opening, with the release of mucoid material to the outside, which is sent for intraoperative anatomical-pathological study, ruling out malignancy. Ilio-ceco-appendicular lymphadenectomy is then performed (with intraoperative diagnosis by freezing of absence of malignancy) and appendico-cecal segmental resection. The final pathological diagnosis is appendiceal mucinous cystadenoma (mucocele).
The postoperative period was favorable, except for infection of the surgical wound, and he was discharged one month after the intervention. The patient lived independently and was asymptomatic until one year after surgery, when he died due to sudden cardiac death.