This is a 76-year-old woman who was admitted to the Vascular Surgery Service due to postphlebitic syndrome. During her stay on the ward she presented clinical deterioration, which is why she was transferred to the ICU on 5/10/03 in a situation of severe sepsis.
Her history of interest highlights HBP, obesity, osteoarthritis, and resection of colonic tubular adenoma. In August 2000, she underwent cholecystectomy for lithiasis cholecystitis with a significant subhepatic inflammatory plastron that required a subtotal resection of the gallbladder. During that admission she developed IBD DVT with subsequent PE and atrial fibrillation, starting treatment with amiodarone and dicoumarins. She in an outpatient study last month she due to non-specific digestive symptoms she observed elevation of GGT and FA in analytical control.
On examination in the ICU she was stuporous, jaundiced and had arterial hypotension. O2 saturation preserved with a mask. Rhythmic cardiac auscultation at 80 bpm, without murmurs. Normal lung auscultation. Her abdomen was globular, painful on palpation in the right abdomen, although there were no signs of peritoneal irritation and her IBD showed good evolution of her thrombosis.
Laboratory tests revealed leukocytosis (37,000/mm3) with neutrophilia, urea 1.83 g/l, creatinine 4.2 mg/dl, total bilirubin 8.6 mg/dl, with direct fraction 5.7 mg/dl, AST 312 U. /l, ALT 106 U/l, GGT 416 U/l. With the diagnosis of sepsis of biliary origin, she began treatment with fluid therapy, dopamine and empirical antibiotics with piperacillin/tazobactam, obtaining a good initial response.
Complementary tests performed: abdominal CT (5/11/03) that showed multiple hypodense images in the liver parenchyma that suggested abscesses. Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiogram, which confirmed the existence of endocarditis at the subvalvular mitral level that caused grade II insufficiency. After this finding, vancomycin and gentamicin were added to the antibiotic treatment. FNAC of liver injury. ERCP did not observe bile duct dilation, although papillotomy was performed to ensure biliary drainage. The subsequent evolution was unfavorable with the development of refractory ODS and death 96 hours after admission to the ICU.
We requested an autopsy that revealed multicentric cholangiocarcinoma, with multiple nodules throughout the organ, local extension to the gallbladder bed and extrahepatic bile ducts, regional metastases to lymph nodes of the hepatic hilum and at a distance, manifested by microscopic foci at the lung level.

Likewise, extensive intratumoral necrosis was observed with superinfection by Enterobacter cloacae, also isolated in blood and FNA sample, which leads us to assume that it was the germ responsible for the septic condition.