A 65-year-old male, with a history of transurethral resection (TUR) for high-grade superficial transitional cell bladder neoplasia (pT1 G3), with subsequent low-grade recurrence, who has the following interesting history: smoker of more than 1 pack/ day, HBP, severe COPD and dilated cardiomyopathy.
In follow-up for his bladder neoplasia, an abdominal computed tomography (CT) without intravenous (IV) contrast was performed, in which a heterogeneous nodular lesion with fatty content (hypodense) of 2 cm in diameter, well-defined borders and location was observed as a casual finding. retroperitoneal, posterior to the inferior vena cava. The study was completed with abdominal ultrasound, visualizing a retroperitoneal hyperechoic lesion in contact with the right lateral slope of the inferior vena cava.

An expectant attitude was decided, with a control CT performed one year later, which showed growth of the mass (4 cm in maximum diameter) that displaces and compresses the inferior vena cava medially without showing signs of its invasion. Given the suspicion of retroperitoneal liposarcoma, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with IV gadolinium was performed, confirming the fatty content of the lesion and a discrete heterogeneous contrast enhancement. The T1 sequences showed a hyperintense lesion although slightly lower than the retroperitoneal, mesenteric and subcutaneous fat, with an area of ​​lower intensity in the upper pole of the lesion. The fat suppression technique demonstrated a slight hyperintensity compared to the perilesional fat, mainly in the upper half.

In the opposite phase images, the lesion was hypointense, presenting a nodular area in its upper pole with the highest signal intensity and which corresponds to the area of ​​lowest intensity in the T1 sequence and highest intensity in the fat suppression. After the administration of gadolinium, a slight uptake of gadolinium was observed.
With the radiological diagnosis of a fatty tumor, probably liposarcoma (given its predominant frequency within retroperitoneal masses), surgery was decided. A reniform mass was surgically removed, posterior to the inferior vena cava and anchored in retroperitoneum to the anterior vertebral ligament, 2 cm from the right renal vein at its lower edge. The lesion does not present a vascular pedicle, showing only small peripheral lymphatics.
A pseudoencapsulated lobular tumor measuring 6 x 5 cm, with a fatty consistency and a grayish-yellowish color, was sent for pathological study. The histology of the specimen reveals a well-defined adipose tumor, which shows large hematopoietic islets with the presence of the 3 series along with rounded lymphoid aggregates, diagnostic of lumbar prevertebral myelolipoma, although a bone marrow study is recommended in order to rule out primary pathology thereof. (extramedullary hematopoiesis in the context of myelodysplastic-myeloproliferative syndrome). This last possibility was ruled out by bone marrow analysis, confirming the diagnosis of retroperitoneal extra-adrenal myelolipoma.