Male patient, 28 years old, seen in a urology clinic for presenting left varicocele. In the study of said pathology, a large mass dependent on the left kidney was discovered, which displaced the abdominal structures; The left renal vein and cava were observed displaced, but patent. Clinically, the patient reported abdominal pain, asthenia and weight loss. He did not have hematuria or voiding syndrome. On physical examination, a large abdominal mass was palpable.
Laboratory tests (systematic blood analysis, blood and urine biochemistry, coagulation) were within normal limits.
Testicular ultrasound confirmed a significant left varicocele; Abdominal ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, and thoracoabdominal computed tomography (CT) demonstrated a mass in the left kidney, measuring 25 × 20 × 14 cm in maximum diameter, which compressed and displaced abdominal structures, as well as the renal and cava veins. The rest of the examination was normal (T2N0).

The study was completed with a bone scan (negative for bone metastases), a fine needle puncture-aspiration (atypical cells suspicious of malignancy) and an arteriography where displacement and rotation of the abdominal aorta were observed.
In view of the results of the study, it was decided to perform a radical nephrectomy; The intervention was uneventful and the postoperative period was favorable; The patient was discharged 7 days after surgery. The pathology report macroscopically described a large encapsulated tumor mass of 4,960 g, measuring 27 × 23 × 15 cm, where no kidney was recognized. Microscopic description confirmed the diagnosis of renal fibromyxoid sarcoma.
Later evolution
Followed in the outpatient consultation by the urology and oncology services (which decided not to give complementary treatment), the patient feels very well and all the complementary examinations carried out 9 months after the intervention (blood and urine tests, thoracoabdominal CT) are normal. . Three months later, an extensive local recurrence was detected in the thoracoabdominal CT, a mass in the left renal cell with local extension (approximately 20 cm) that affected the spleen and pancreas that displaces but does not appear to infiltrate.

Treatment was decided with surgery for a large multiloculated tumor that infiltrated the spleen, the tail of the pancreas, the greater gastric curvature and the left diaphragm. A resection of the tumor was performed, including the affected diaphragm, a vertical gastrectomy up to the angle of His, a splenectomy with resection of the tail of the pancreas, and a colectomy of the splenic flexure.
The pathology report confirmed that it was an abdominal and retroperitoneal recurrence of high-grade sarcoma, compatible with fibrosarcoma, adhered to the gastric wall, spleen and pancreas.
Treatment was completed with chemotherapy (6 cycles-adriamycin/ifosfamide/mesna) and radiotherapy, which presented good tolerance and response (control CT scan within normal limits).
After four months, he presented a new recurrence seen on abdominal CT, for which he received chemotherapy treatment and 8 months later the patient died.