44-year-old male, single, living with his mother and working in a protected job. Diagnosis of Residual Schizophrenia (F20.5, ICD-10) (11) in follow-up at his Mental Health Center and with psychopharmacological treatment with 400 mg of amisulpi-ride, 10 mg of olanzapine and 10 mg of diazepam. Non-daily but sustained consumption of tramadol, cannabis, alcohol and cocaine. The somatic history highlights a difficulty in walking, he walks with a crutch, as a consequence of multiple trauma following precipitation in the context of a psychotic episode 14 years ago.
The patient is found by his mother at home unconscious without response to stimuli and without being able to specify how long he had been in that state. Self-intoxication with an undetermined large amount of tramadol, benzodiazepines, alcohol and cocaine. Approach to the Intensive Care Unit for 6 days. Complications include rhabdomyolysis, acute renal failure and pneumonic process. Normal head CT. Stabilization and transfer to the Internal Medicine ward, one week of admission, somatic overcoming of the episode.
Transfer to the Psychiatry Service, voluntary admission. During the first five days of admission to the Psychiatry Unit, the patient remains psychopathologically stable. Not psychotic decompensation, criticism of the episode that he defines as a "high" and of which he points out that he cannot remember the specific conditions but that he can remember a previous discussion with the mother. Adapted to the rhythms of the Unit, he participates in Occupational Therapy activities. Euthymic, within the previous defect, concrete plans for the future, outings with the family with an adequate response, possibility of discharge and follow-up at his Mental Health Center.
However, after these first asymptomatic days, the patient begins to progressively present episodes of temporal-spatial disorientation accompanied by marked bradypsychia, ataxia (from crutch to walker) and generalized motor slowing. Memory failures accompanied by an effort to remember, aphasia and apraxia. However, the patient is calm in a placid attitude. No anguish, sustained sleep. Without modifications in previous psychiatric treatment.
Despite the family's insistence on pointing out "a psychotic outbreak" (...) the condition is framed by a cognitive deterioration of cortical characteristics with striking impairment of the attentional system, executive function, memory and linguistic function. The EEG shows marked slowing and diffuse attenuation of the background rhythm. After evaluation by Internal Medicine and Neurology, it is transferred to the Neurology Service.
The initial cranial MRI shows how supratentorially there is a pattern of diffuse leukodystrophy predominantly fronto-parietal, hyperintense on T2 and with a discrete restriction component on the diffusion sequences. (T2-MRI, image 1; T2-FLAIR MRI, image 2).

Ten days later, comparing with the previous MRI, greater signal alteration was seen in the diffusion sequences with progression of the condition in T2 and T2-FLAIR at the bilateral parieto-occipital level and regression in T2-FLAIR in the frontal and temporal poles.
During the twenty days of admission to Neurology, no infectious symptoms or analytical alterations were observed and the determination of serology and antibodies was normal. It is concluded that both the clinical and neuroimaging alterations are compatible with a Late Hypoxic Encephalopathy, leaving the doubt of the possibility of previous leukodystrophic lesions in the white matter. However, there is no family history of interest and there is no previous history that suggests the presence of leukodystrophy. During his stay in Neurology, the patient slowly improves spontaneously, maintaining the previous psychiatric treatment. Upon admission he was only able to walk with a walker needing to be directed. Upon discharge, he moves with canes without difficulty, he is able to put coins into the machine to drink coffee, his bradypsychia and memory have improved significantly, but he still has moments of disorientation. He goes to the Rehabilitation Service daily.