34-year-old woman, of Argentine nationality, referred from Neuropediatrics to the Metabolic Diseases Unit of the Ramón y Cajal Hospital, in order to rule out metabolic disease, due to having 2 children, ages 12 and 9, from a different father, with microcephaly. and severe mental retardation. The patient reported having had another child who, due to a heart malformation, died at 3 months of age. She was married, spoke normally, and carried out activities of daily living. She sometimes had problems with money exchange and she had not been able to complete her studies but she knew how to read, write, add, subtract, multiply and divide (only by 1 figure). She was estimated to have an IQ of 70-75, corresponding to mild-moderate mental retardation. She did not undergo any treatment nor reported any known illnesses and had no family history of interest.
In both children, Phe levels were normal, 70 and 92 micromol/L. But the patient's Phe levels were determined, being 1,140 micromol/L (normal < 120 micromol/L). Phe levels at diagnosis, between 660 and 1,200 micromol/L, determine a classification of mild-moderate PKU phenotype. The differential diagnosis was made with disorders in pterin metabolism, whose study was normal. The following mutational changes were found in the PAH gene: c.165delT (p.Phe55fs) / c.q62G > A (p.Val388Met), with both children only carrying the p.Phe55fs mutation.
After the diagnosis of Phenylketonuria in the mother, an overload of Tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) was performed to rule out a possible response to this pharmacological treatment, since in some PKU patients it is possible to improve PAH activity by giving pharmacological doses of its cofactor, but in this Patient's phenylalanine levels did not experience significant changes and therefore she was considered a non-responder.

Treatment was started with a diet limited in phenylalanine in order to maintain phenylalanine levels less than 660 micromol/L (maximum levels allowed in adults without pregnancy) and weekly control of phenylalanine in the blood. To do this, we adjust the diet to 20-25 g of high biological value proteins/day (PAVB: milk, eggs, meat, fish, cheese, cereals and legumes) distributed over breakfast, lunch and dinner (5-10 and 10 g). , with freedom in vegetables, greens, natural fruits, peeled potatoes, olives, sugar, oils, butter, corn starch (Maizena®), spices and low protein foods Loprofín®, Aglutella® and Aproten® purchased through the Association of PKU patients of Madrid.
60 g of special proteins without phenylalanine (PrXPhe) were added to the PAVB, divided into 4 doses/day, in the form of special preparations containing essential amino acids without phenylalanine with carbohydrates, essential fatty acids, ions, trace elements and vitamins.
The weekly evolution of Phe throughout the first 3 months of follow-up showed levels of 498 ± 15 micromoles/L. Later the family returned to Argentina where they are currently undergoing treatment.