Male patient, 47 years old, married, goes to the Oral Medicine department of the Hospital de Clínicas of Porto Alegre and claims to have painful lesions in the oral cavity that look like bleeding blisters that break easily and leave an ulcerated surface for approximately 4 months. In the anamnesis the patient states that he is not a smoker and works in a car battery factory, which has also caused chronic poisoning (lead poisoning). He also says he has had an ulcer on his right leg for 20 years.
The physical examination revealed inflammation of the cervical and submandibular lymph nodes on the left side, as well as several ulcer-like lesions on the labial mucosa, palate, buccal mucosa, floor of the mouth, and larynx. The injury to the right leg is confirmed, as well as erosive lesions covered by a scab in the armpits and trunk.

A partial biopsy was performed on one of the lower lip lesions, in which the positive Nikolsky sign was observed at the time of sampling and it was seen that the histopathological characteristics of the lesion were blisters with suprabasal acantholysis, which is compatible with pemphigus vulgaris.

A few days after the biopsy, the patient suffered an exacerbation of the lesions and had to be admitted to the hospital with a condition consisting of: blistering lesions on the chest, right leg and oral cavity, which prevented him from feeding. New biopsies were made of the lesions on the trunk and mouth and an immunofluorescence examination was also performed, in which IgG deposits were observed in the intercellular junctions, IgA in the walls of small vessels and the absence of IgM, C3 , C1q and fibrinogen deposits. Treatment with prednisone was started with gradually increasing doses until reaching 100 mg daily. The patient responded favorably to the treatment and left the hospital with a notable improvement.

After hospitalization, treatment was established for the patient based on 140 mg of prednisone daily combined with 100 mg of Azathioprine, 40 mg of Omeprazole, 400 mg of calcium carbonate, vitamin D4 and Nystatin rinses, the latter 4 times a day. After one month of treatment, almost total remission of symptoms was observed and the dose of prednisone was reduced to 120 mg for 15 days and, subsequently, to 100 mg. Likewise, it was decided to increase the dose of Azathiproprine to 150 mg daily. The patient is still under medical supervision.