A 31-year-old woman was admitted to the Internal Medicine Service of our hospital in 2008 due to unquantified weight loss and vomiting of uncertain duration. The patient did not report any other symptoms due to devices. During admission, a complete biochemical study, blood count, and thyroid function were performed, which were normal. Infectious pathology was ruled out, with various serologies performed, determination of parasites in feces, etc., all studies being negative. The presence of digestive pathology was also ruled out, and specifically malabsorption conditions (upper digestive endoscopy (EDA), antigliadin and anendomysial antibodies, duodenal biopsy: normal). In the gastroesophagoduodenal study, a dilation of the second duodenal portion was observed in relation to extrinsic compression, suggestive of aorto-mesenteric clamp; Diagnosis confirmed with CT angiography of the mesenteric artery. The patient was also evaluated by Psychiatry, ruling out the presence of an eating disorder.

With the diagnosis of Wilkie syndrome, she was referred to a Nutrition consultation in November 2009. She reported a usual weight of 56 kg. At that time she weighed 43.9 kg and her body mass index (BMI) was 16.7 kg/m2. Initially, nutritional management was attempted with dietary modifications, postural measures and prescription of supplements, without improvement; although at no time during the course did the patient present a retention stomach or hydroelectrolyte alterations. In January 2010, at 42.6 kg, she was proposed to provisionally place a feeding tube to attempt nutritional recovery through the administration of enteral nutrition (EN). Digestive tolerance was good and she did not present refeeding syndrome, increasing her weight to 50 kg (BMI: 19). At that time, an attempt was made to reintroduce natural foods, the vomiting reappeared, so a new esophagogastroduodenal study was performed, with findings similar to those of the diagnosis. In this situation, according to the patient, the General Surgery Service is consulted and surgical treatment is proposed. A duodenojejunostomy is performed. Oral tolerance after surgery was initially problematic in relation to gastric hypotonia, requiring treatment with prokinetics. Two months after the intervention, the patient was completely asymptomatic, weighing 50 kg, oral tolerance was good and the barium study showed a stomach with normal morphology and emptying and good passage of contrast through the duodenojejunostomy. Today the patient has lost weight again (45 kg). She denies the existence of digestive symptoms, and she claims to look thin and want to regain lost weight; but she rejects taking nutritional supplements, as well as carrying out any medical study and re-evaluation by the Psychiatry Service.