The patient, a 55-year-old man with no known allergies diagnosed with gastric adenocarcinoma, was admitted in November 2001 to the Digestive Service of the Son Dureta Hospital where he underwent a subtotal gastrectomy with transit reconstruction using a Billroth II gastrojejunostomy. Five days after the surgical intervention, the patient's clinical situation requires the prescription of artificial nutrition, starting the administration of TPN via a central line. The preparation administered is Kabimix® (see detailed composition in Table I), a 2,553 kilocalorie diet supplemented in the Pharmacy Service with a multivitamin preparation (PMV) (Cernevit®) and trace elements (Addamel®) on an alternate day regimen. 48 hours after the introduction of parenteral feeding, it was decided to change the type of diet, in order to administer a formula more adjusted to the patient's nutritional requirements, so the patient receives the Kabiven® formula supplemented with the same PMV and trace elements every other day starting with vitamins. 24 hours after starting the infusion of this diet, the patient develops a significant disseminated pruritic skin rash that requires the administration of oral dexchlorpheniramine. Mechanical complications cause the loss of the central line, leading to the decision to withdraw the TPN and initiate oral tolerance. On the eighth day after the surgical intervention, the patient reported intense abdominal pain that required an exploratory laparotomy, detecting an abscess with a biliary collection. TPN is restarted by administering the Kabiven® diet supplemented with the aforementioned PMV. A few hours after starting the infusion, a new episode of disseminated pruritic skin rash occurs, leading to definitive discontinuation of TPN.

In March 2003, the patient went to the emergency department of the aforementioned hospital due to fever and abdominal pain, being diagnosed with cholangitis and admitted to the Digestive Service. Along with the antibiotic and analgesic treatment, an absolute diet is indicated and, due to the history of hypersensitivity, the prescription of TPN is avoided, administering a solution of amino acids and glucose (Aminoven®, table III), without erythema being observed or the patient reporting pruritus. . After 48 hours, lipid emulsion (Intralipid® 10%, table III) was added centrally without any complications. It was decided on this occasion not to administer PMV or trace elements to the patient. After several days of admission, progression of the gastric neoformation process was observed, with the patient dying in April 2003.