73-year-old male patient, smoker of 55 packs of cigarettes a year, with no known drug allergies and no prior treatment. He was admitted for ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (STEACS), complicated 72 hours later with post-infarction angina. A hemodynamic study was performed that revealed an obstruction of 90% of the right coronary artery (RCA), 70% in the anterior descending artery (LAD), 90% in the first diagonal, 70% in the bisector and 70% in the in the circumflex (CX). During catheterization, an ejection fraction of 75% was observed with a normal left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. In a medical-surgical session, the patient was accepted for surgery, and treatment was instituted with carvedilol, captopril, amlodipine, simvastatin and acetylsalicylic acid. After 30 days, scheduled myocardial revascularization was performed using grafts from the saphenous vein to the CD and diagonally and from the mammary artery to the LAD. During the procedure, a CPB time of 112 minutes was used, an ischemia time of 76 minutes and was achieved. hypothermia of 29º C. Anesthesia was induced with etomidate and cisatracurium and maintained with midazolam (5-7.5 mg/hour), cisatracurium (2.5-5 mg/hour), and remifentanil (0.01-0.01). .02 µg. kg-1. min-1). Standard cardiopulmonary bypass with pulsatile flow was used. Heparin activity was antagonized with protamine. Pump output was normal, and there were no intraoperative incidents.
Upon admission to the Intensive Care Unit, he showed the following hemodynamic parameters: mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 77 mmHg, with dobutamine infusion at 4.5 µg. kg-1. min-1, heart rate of 80 l/min, pulmonary artery pressure of 31/20 mmHg, CVP of 18 mmHg and PCP of 16 mmHg. Cardiac output (CO) was 6.8 L/min, with a rate (CI) of 3.35 L/min/m2.
In just 2 hours of evolution, the patient presented hemodynamic deterioration, with marked hypotension despite adding norepinephrine perfusion at 0.4 µg. kg-1. min-1. and increase the dose of dobutamine up to 8 µg. kg-1.min-1. He maintained diuresis, remained afebrile and well adapted to maximum ventilation. Mediastinal drainage was small. Simple chest radiology showed no images of parenchymal condensation, the Swan-Ganz catheter was in the correct position and there were no changes in the electrocardiogram (ECG).
2,200 cc of crystalloids and colloids were administered in one hour, that is, about 30 ml/kg (weight: 70 kg) and the perfusion of norepinephrine was increased above 0.5 µg. kg-1. min-1, without any response being appreciated. The dobutamine infusion was maintained at the same doses. Sedation was performed with low doses of midazolam. An echocardiographic control ruled out other complications. The core temperature was 35º C and there was no early overheating, in accordance with the usual pattern. Given the presence of data compatible with postoperative vasoplegia refractory to treatment, it was decided to use methylene blue. However, blood cultures were obtained and were negative. In addition to requesting the corresponding consents, family members were informed of the use of this medication.
The hemodynamic parameters measured with the pulmonary artery catheter before and at various times after the infusion of methylene blue are expressed in Table 1. A spectacular hemodynamic response was observed at the time of infusion, which was maintained over time. It allowed the withdrawal of norepinephrine, normalizing MAP and increasing systemic vascular resistance (SVR) and pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR). No changes were recorded in arterial blood gases.

Methylene blue was administered in doses of 2 mg/kg diluted in 250 cc of 5% glucose serum, to be administered over 60 minutes.
We did not observe any adverse effects of interest, except for urine staining. There was no renal failure, maintaining normal urea and creatinine values ​​and preserved diuresis. Hemoglobin levels did not present changes and there were no alterations in coagulation or liver failure. The level of methemoglobinemia was not determined, although this adverse effect, like the others, is described with the use of doses much higher than those used in our case.
After stabilization, the patient was extubated 24 hours after admission, and discharge was prolonged preventively until 72 hours, without new complications arising. Hospital discharge occurred 11 days later and no late complications were observed.