A 66-year-old white female patient with a history of digestive bleeding due to peptic ulcer at age 42, menopause at age 50, osteoporosis, dorso-lumbar osteoarthritis, dyslipidemia, appendectomy. She usually followed treatment with rabeprazole 10 mg/24 hours, almagate as needed. She consulted for pain and stiffness in proximal areas of the limbs that had been going on for 1 year and that in the last 3 months she had been accompanied by low-grade fever, asthenia, anorexia, weight loss of about 8 kg, and a depressive syndrome associated with organic pathology. The physical examination showed a good general condition with a temperature of 37.5 ºC, blood pressure was normal, skin pallor was present, and cardiorespiratory auscultation was normal.
The analyzes revealed a hemoglobin of 10.8 g/dL, MCV 88.1 fl, an ESR 75 mm, CRP 94 mg/dL, and D-dimers 400 ug/l. In the biochemical examination, GGT 139 U/L, alkaline f 217 U/L, iron 19 ug/dL, ferritin 436 ng/ml, glucose, creatinine, calcium, phosphorus, cholesterol, triglycerides, proteins, GOT, GPT, LDH , CPK, sodium and potassium normal. Negative rheumatoid factor. Normal thyrotropin. b2 microglobulin, CEA and CA 19.9 normal. Negative blood cultures. The urine sediment was normal. Fecal occult blood was negative. The chest x-ray showed a fibrous tract with a residual appearance in the right lower lobe. Gastroduodenal transit was normal. Abdominal ultrasound and abdominal CT were normal. The gastroscopy was normal. A biopsy of the temporal artery was performed, which only showed signs of arteriosclerosis.
With the diagnosis of polymyalgia rheumatica, treatment was started with deflazacort 30 mg/24 hours, finding improvement and normalizing hemoglobin, CRP and ESR. Deflazacort was progressively reduced and 7 months after starting treatment the patient was asymptomatic and was taking a dose of 6 mg of deflazacort per day.
When the patient was 69 years old, she was receiving treatment with deflazacort 6 mg/24, paroxetine 20 mg/24, gabapentin 400 mg/12 h, omeprazole 20 mg/24, and lormetazepam 1 mg/24. A routine check-up had been performed 6 months previously, the patient being asymptomatic and hemoglobin, ESR and CRP being normal. She consulted for low-grade fever and sometimes a fever of 38.5 ºC, predominantly in the afternoon without an apparent focus, dry cough, anorexia, and diffuse abdominal pain. Physical examination was normal.
The analyzes showed hemoglobin 10.4 g/dL, Hct 31.9% (normal VCM, HCM and RDW). The ESR 109 mm, and the CRP 93 mg/dL. The biochemical analysis revealed GGT 220 U/L, GPT 45 U/L, GOT 44 U/L, and ALP 153 U/L, iron 20 ug/dL, and ferritin 441.6 ng/ml. CK. Normal proteinogram. Normal thyroid hormones. Normal folate and haptoglobin cobalamin. Negative direct Coombs test. Urine sediment. Blood cultures, stool cultures and urine cultures were negative. Serologies for Toxoplasma, Cytomegalovirus, Epstein Barr, Salmonella typhy and parathiphy, Brucella, Coxiella burnetti, adenovirus, respiratory syncytial virus, influenza A FC, B FC, parainfluenza 1+3 FC negative. HIV virus serology, hepatitis B and C negative. ZN of negative sputum. The Mantoux test was negative. CEA, and beta-2-microglobulin normal. Ig G 10.60, IgA 1.76, IgM 2.55. Normal C3 and C4 complement. Rheumatoid factor, ANA, AMA, ANCA and anti LKM negative. Fecal occult blood was negative.
The chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly. The spine x-ray showed an area of ​​sclerosis at the level of L4 that on lumbar spine CT corresponded to a bone infarction at L4. There were no significant findings on abdominal ultrasound. The thoracic-abdominal CT scan only revealed a pericardial effusion. The gastroscopy was normal and the colonoscopy revealed diverticula and internal hemorrhoids.

The ECG showed sinus rhythm Fc 90 x' q in DIII and AVF and lack of septal vector activation. An echocardiogram was performed, revealing a severe antero-posterior pericardial effusion associated with a pattern of poor ventricular relaxation, without hemodynamic compromise. Pericardiocentesis was performed, obtaining approximately 200 cc of yellowish, gelatinous serofibrinous fluid that solidified at rest; The analysis of the pericardial fluid showed red blood cells 680/mm3, leukocytes 30 mm3, glucose 98 mg/dL, proteins 4.46 g/dL, LDH 284 UL, ADA 18 U/L; pericardial fluid culture was sterile, ZN stain negative; Cytology was negative for malignant cells, with abundant fibrin, some inflammatory and mesothelial cells without atypia. The cardiac study was completed with myocardial perfusion scintigraphy that did not show alterations in perfusion that suggest myocardial ischemia or necrosis. A temporal artery biopsy was performed, observing a transmural inflammatory infiltrate made up of a mixture of polymorphonuclear cells, lymphocytes and giant cells; The infiltrate is accompanied by fracture of the internal elastic band. Treatment was started with deflazacort at 60 mg/day, improving the symptoms in a few days, and the pericardial effusion resolved in 3 months.