60-year-old male, smoker of 20 cigarettes/day, COPD (chronic bronchitis type). Herniated discs L4-L5-S1-S2 operated on, gallstones with cholestasis pattern. Gastric adenocarcinoma (T3N1M0, IIIa) operated on 4 years previously by total gastrectomy + splenectomy + distal pancreatectomy + esophago-jejunal and jejuno-jejunal Roux-en-Y anastomosis, without subsequent chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Epigastric pain and frequent diarrhea along with megaloblastic anemia secondary to malabsorption. For 4 months he had been receiving treatment with phenytoin for epileptic seizures. Under follow-up by the Oncology Service with no evidence of tumor recurrence although he maintained chronic treatment with dexamethasone.
He was admitted due to increased diarrhea along with a fever of 38ºC, showing skin lesions on the lower limbs described as pustular and blistering, and signs of pneumonic consolidation in the D base confirmed by X-ray. The fever and pneumonic condensation disappeared after treatment with levofloxacin for two weeks. Likewise, abdominal pain, diarrhea, and heart rhythm disturbances disappeared after treatment with digitalis, with weakness of the lower limbs and skin lesions persisting that extended to the legs, arms, hands, and back, predominantly erythematous, some with vesicles on the surface. When broken, they left a necrotic center.
Neither the imaging techniques performed (CT of the skull, thorax and abdomen and bone scintigraphy) nor the bone marrow aspiration and biopsy showed metastatic lesions or tumor infiltration. MRI of the spine revealed osteomalacia; Decreased levels of 25-OH-D were observed. This osteomalacia could be explained by intestinal malabsorption of vitamin D, pancreatic insufficiency or treatment with anticonvulsants, three circumstances that occurred simultaneously in this patient. Blood culture, urine culture, and stool culture were negative, as was HIV and CMV serology.
For the diagnosis of dermatological lesions, samples were taken for pathological anatomy and microbiology. The biopsy reported cells with foreign body inclusions suggestive of malignant disease or dermatophytosis. The microbiological study confirmed dermatophytosis, with the isolation of Trichophyton mentagrophytes in the culture of the sample taken from the hand lesions, and of Alternaria sp in the culture of the sample taken from a leg lesion. Treatment with oral itraconazole was started with a very good clinical response, and he was discharged from the hospital a few days later, although under review by the Dermatology and Internal Medicine Services.