A 62-year-old woman with a history of high blood pressure, hypercholesterolemia, and hypertriglyceridemia. Urological history of high-grade infiltrating bladder tumor (G3T2 p53+ transitional cell carcinoma and Carcinoma in situ in sample 1 of the standardized multiple biopsy).
After radical cystectomy with Studer-type bladder reconstruction (solid pattern G3 urothelial carcinoma, pt3b, negative nodes), she presented sepsis of urinary origin and was admitted to the semi-critical unit with intensive antibiotic and diuretic treatment.
Three days after admission, the patient reported sudden onset tinnitus accompanied by significant bilateral hearing loss. The patient did not present vertiginous symptoms or instability. There was no otalgia or otodynia or sensation of otic fullness. Her facial mobility was preserved.
The physical examination is strictly normal, revealing profound hearing loss in the right ear and cophosis in the left ear, with normal impedanciometry.

Once the neurosensory nature of the hearing loss was confirmed, a review of the patient's medical history and a new anamnesis were carried out to carry out the etiological study. Once the relationship with systemic diseases, intracranial infections and trauma was ruled out, the hearing loss was attributed to the administration of intravenous furosemide in the initial management of septic shock.
The administration of furosemide was suspended, and the combination of other ototoxic drugs was prohibited. Treatment with high-dose parenteral corticosteroids (Methylprednisolone 120 mg/24) and oral pentoxifylline was carried out according to the sudden hearing loss protocol. (400 mg/ 8 hours). After 7 days of parenteral treatment, oral corticosteroid treatment was continued in a descending regimen for 14 more days (Prednisone 60 mg/day for 7 days and 30 mg/day for 7 days), maintaining pentoxifylline at the same dose for several months. Audiometry two weeks after treatment showed improvement in tonal hearing with the appearance of low-pitched auditory remnants in the left ear and an increase in thresholds in the right ear.

After 6 months of treatment, the patient has recovered up to 58% of her hearing in her right ear. The left ear has auditory remains in low frequencies, but no obvious recovery has been observed. The patient is undergoing controls at our center, and it has been recommended that she be fitted with an acoustic prosthesis in her right ear. Oncologically she has started complementary treatment with chemotherapy, without affecting her hearing levels.