A 66-year-old patient, ex-smoker, with a history of surgery for adenomatous polyp in the colon, inguinal hernia and esophageal varices, was admitted for study due to chronic hypochromic microcytic anemia and persistent cough.
The analysis showed a hemoglobin of 10.2 g/dl, a hematocrit of 33% and an erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 87. The urine sample and chest x-ray were normal.
Abdominal ultrasound showed a hyperechoic mass in the cortex of the right kidney measuring 7 x 5.6 x 6.6 cm, compatible with a solid tumor.
The abdominal CT scan revealed a right renal mass in the lower pole, suggestive of hypernephroma of 10 cm in diameter, which produced thrombosis of the renal vein and inferior vena cava. Locoregional lymphadenopathy was also evident. The extension study did not show metastasis.
With the diagnosis of hypernephroma, an extended right nephrectomy was performed with cavotomy and extraction of tumor thrombus, as well as interaorto-caval lymphadenectomy.
The pathological anatomy was clear cell renal cell carcinoma measuring 8 cm in diameter with tumor invasion of the ureter and renal vein. Nuclear grade III/IV. Ganglia without tumor involvement (T3bN0).
Three months after surgery, the chest x-ray showed multiple nodular images in both lung fields compatible with metastasis. He also had radicular pain in his left leg. The patient was treated with Interleukin-2 by the Oncology Service.
Six months after surgery he consulted due to the appearance of two irregular, hard nodules 2-3 cm in diameter, located below the right testis, at the root of the penis. Scrotal ultrasound reported an echogenic, solid extratesticular mass with small cystic areas measuring 2.3 x 2.5 x 2 cm and another formation with similar characteristics in the penile root measuring 2.8 x 2 cm.

FNAC was performed on these lesions, resulting in the pathological diagnosis of metastasis due to clear cell carcinoma.
In the control CT scan, a bilateral paravertebral mass was seen, infiltrating the vertebra at the C7-D1 level, for which the administration of analgesic radiotherapy was required.
Fourteen months after surgery, he was treated with palliative radiotherapy for spinal cord compression syndrome, and died a month later.