A 32-year-old male, with no relevant pathological history and no previous treatments, underwent surgery for a tear of the splenic hilum, mesentery of the root of the jejunum and superior mesenteric artery (SMA) due to trauma. Resection of the right colon, ileum and 2/3 of the jejunum with jejunostomy and splenectomy was performed. After the postoperative period and undergoing TPN, progressive oral tolerance begins with sugary infusions, defatted broths, alkaline lemonade (WHO formula) to introduce small and frequent oral doses of elemental enteral formula (Elemental 0.28 Extra liquid®) and 3 doses of 5 grams of glutamine (Adamín G®) with the purpose of stimulating trophism and adaptation of the enterocyte.
At 6 months, the 12 cm of jejunum is anastomosed with the left colon and a cholecystectomy is performed to prevent further choleretic diarrhea. From this moment on, the objective is to maintain a stable nutritional status, a diuresis greater than 1 liter/day and control of diarrhea, assessing daily balances and determining hematological and biochemical parameters twice a week.
Nutritional behavior
It is structured as follows:
a) Parenteral Nutrition: TPN is replaced by 2 liters of Isoplasmar G® with the addition of an ampoule of 10 mEq of potassium/liter and the vitamin module (Addamel®) on alternate days with the trace element module (Cernevit®).
b) Oral Enteral Nutrition: alternating with meals, 4-5 doses of "Elemental 0.28 Extra Liquid" and 3 doses of 5 g of "Adamín G®" are maintained.
c) Oral hydration: take "alkaline lemonade" on demand and between meals.
d) Food: with a progressive criterion, which begins with foods that are easily digestible and absorbed and with less secretory stimulation to continue with those that are more difficult. From a diet with simple Carbohydrates (HC) and cooked starches, depending on the rhythm, volume and characteristics of the feces, protein foods (skimmed dairy products, egg whites, fish and lean meats) are included, and subsequently the addition oil, to later assess tolerance to cooked vegetables and legumes. In any case, small, frequent and simple preparation shots are available.
e) Medication: to reduce chlorhydropeptic secretion and stimulate the secretion of water and pancreatic bicarbonate, omeprazole (40 mg/day) is associated and to facilitate the digestibility of natural foods and their absorptive availability, 2 capsules of pancreatic enzymes are associated ( Kreón 10,000®) with food intake.
The appearance of abdominal distension due to fermentation resulting from excess CH in the first phase accelerated the transition to a normal, very fractionated diet free of fried foods, animal fats and moderate CH, controlling aerocolya. Three months after the jejunocolic anastomosis, nutritional stability, diuresis and 4-6 liquid-pasty stools were maintained. He was discharged from the hospital with the aforementioned treatment and with a reservoir for nocturnal fluid therapy of 1-2 liters of Isoplasmar G depending on diuresis.
Evaluated by the Intestinal Transplant Unit of the Ramón y Cajal Hospital in Madrid and 14 months after starting enteral nutrition, the indication for transplant was rejected due to good nutritional status. Fluid therapy is suspended maintaining diuresis above 1,200 mL/day, 3-5 stools of pasty or shaped consistency (depending on type of intake) and stable anthropometric and analytical parameters with hypolipemia. The rapid loss of 7-8 kg stands out after withdrawing fluid therapy, finally stabilizing between 64 kg, for a height of 175 cm and a usual weight of 70 kg.
With his own autonomy he maintains moderate physical activity. Follow a free diet in frequent and small meals, only limited by specific intolerances, and frequently drink mineralized drinks. He has been prescribed: "Elemental 0.28 Extra Liquid" (800 kcal/day), 2 capsules of "Kreón 10,000®" with each meal, 2 tablets of "Supradyn®" (double the RDA for micronutrients) and 1,000 mcg of vitamin B12 im per month. Throughout the evolution, a depletion of vitamins D, B12 and ac was detected. Folic; which were corrected with the corresponding shock dose.
Tables I, II and III record the analytical determinations of nutrients carried out during the period between 6 months after the intervention and the last one carried out, where a stable and progressive nutritional status within normality is observed.