A 62-year-old female patient with a history of high blood pressure (HTN) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) on treatment with metformin, which began 24 hours prior to admission with general malaise, fever up to 38.5ºC, and lumbar pain. and acute confusion, along with progressive loss of vision in the right eye. Upon examination, the patient was confused, with a tendency to sleep, febrile, with blood pressure values ​​of 100/70 mmHg and 95 bpm. From the ophthalmological point of view, the right eye presented upper eyelid edema with ptosis of a mechanical appearance, restriction of elevation and adduction due to orbital edema, conjunctival chemosis, transparent cornea, with the ability to perceive light and project focus, with a miotic pupil with appearance of synechiae, and unexplorable fundus due to media opacity. The rest of the general examination was normal. In the blood analysis, he had a hemoglobin of 10.5 g/dl, 82,000 platelets/µL, 5020 leukocytes/µL, with 82% neutrophils, glucose of 402 mg/dl, glomerular sedimentation rate of 133 mm in the 1st hour, and a C-reactive protein of 165 U/L. The rest of the routine analytical parameters were within normal limits. In urine, 30-40 leukocytes/field were observed. In the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), 95 cells/mm3 were observed, with 84% polymorphonuclear and 16% mononuclear, a glucose of 77 mg/dl and 125 mg/dl of proteins. A CT scan and a cranial MRI were performed where no orbital or cavernous sinus alterations were observed. Spinal MRI showed a compatible image compatible with spondylitis at the L4-L5 level. A transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiogram did not reveal the existence of endocarditis. Blood cultures, urine cultures and CSF cultures were performed, all of which were isolated Escherichia coli, with the same sensitivity pattern in the antibiogram.
She was treated with ceftriaxone 2 g i.v. and ciprofloxacin 200 mg i.v. twice a day, together with topical treatment with neomycin, prednisone and atropine for 30 days, continuing with oral ciprofloxacin 750 mg twice a day for 14 more days. At the end of the treatment, the affected eye retained its ability to perceive light.