A 70-year-old white man with a history of benign prostatic hyperplasia, recurrent atrial fibrillation and right hemithyroidectomy for nodular hyperplasia, as well as unstudied chronic renal failure (baseline creatinine 1.5 mg/dl).
He went to the emergency room with a three-month history of gait instability and generalized weakness (previous admission to another center for these symptoms). On physical examination, the patient is dehydrated, confused, bradypsychic, and has distal tremor.
The analytical data are summarized in (Table 1), highlighting significant deterioration in renal function, severe hypercalcemia and marked elevation of PTH (twenty times over the laboratory reference value). Fluotherapy, infusion of furosemide and intravenous corticosteroids, bisphosphonates and calcitonin were started. Due to the severity of the neurological symptoms, urgent renal replacement therapy through hemodialysis with low calcium concentration in the dialysate is simultaneously indicated. He presents temporary clinical improvement, but due to persistence of renal failure and rebound of hypercalcemia (increase in calcium > 2 mg/dl 24 hours post-hemodialysis), he requires continuing with daily sessions.

As part of the etiological study, myeloproliferative processes and other neoplasms are ruled out (no monoclonal component in proteinogram, negative Bence-Jones proteinuria), infectious pathology (negative serologies) and autoimmune diseases. Urinary ultrasound with normal-sized kidneys and adequate cortico-medullary differentiation. The thoraco-abdominal CT scan reports a retroesophageal mass measuring 5.6 × 3.2 × 6.8 cm, suspicious for a parathyroid tumor, and the image is confirmed by parathyroid scintigraphy, in addition to bilateral hypodense adrenal nodules: right 27 × 18 mm and left 15 × 11 mm.
With these findings, Endocrinology was consulted, which ruled out pheochromocytoma (catecholamines and metanephrines in urine were negative). In a joint session with General Surgery, surgical management was decided, resecting an 8 cm parathyroid tumor. The Pathological Anatomy reports parathyroid adenoma without capsular or vascular invasion.

In the immediate postoperative period, "hungry bone syndrome" occurs, so the patient requires intravenous and oral calcium supplementation due to severe hypocalcemia, and interday hemodialysis sessions up to nine days after surgery.
Nine months later, the patient is asymptomatic, with calcemia in the range without the need for supplements, and with partial recovery of kidney function (creatinine 2.7 mg/dl). It is noteworthy that renal function remains altered one year after surgery, despite normalization of calcium levels.