A 16-year-old female student, in good general condition, came to our Unit, reporting having been raped two months before the interview. She had not made the complaint, due to personal reasons. She was consulting about oral lesions that had been going on for approximately two weeks, which caused difficulty in speaking and swallowing.
When taking the anamnesis, the patient showed insecurity and concealment in her responses.
Examination of her buccal mucosa revealed the typical opaline, slightly raised, grayish-white plaques of syphilitic secondary disease and other white lesions surrounded by a red halo, some multiple and some solitary. In Figure 1, you can see the white plaques in both commissures and, in the lower labial mucosa, in the midline, three more plaques. The one closest to the bottom of the furrow, opaline white, well circumscribed. Another 2 cm plate. approximately in diameter, it shows a small central red area close to the semimucosa, another similar one is observed.

In Figure 2, similar plaques are found on the left edge of the tongue, near the tip and in the posterior area. On the right edge, in the middle and back, two 1.5 cm plates of the same characteristics can also be seen. diameter each. Close to the tip of the tongue, at the edges and extended towards the ventral surface, a rough-looking surface can be seen in figure 3. Corugated and whitish, which could not be removed by scraping and was clinically diagnosed as hairy leukoplakia (VL). The patient gave authorization to perform an HIV test, which was performed the next day and whose results were delivered in person approximately thirty days later. Given a first reactive VDRL (128 dls), the fluorescent test for antibodies against treponema (FTA-ABS), the treponema hematoagglutination test (TPHA) was requested, and a spirochete demonstration was performed in the exudate of one of the oral lesions. or "dark field test", with a positive result. A mucosal biopsy was performed with a presumptive diagnosis of hairy leukoplakia. Due to the high serology titers obtained, classical treatment for syphilis with injections of benzathine penicillin was immediately instituted. The LV biopsy result was confirmed. The patient did not attend the consultation again and did not withdraw the HIV result, which had been reactive, which is why an attempt has been made to locate the young woman to inform her of her status, monitor the effectiveness of the syphilis treatment, and establish an eventual treatment and monitoring of your immunodeficiency.