We present the clinical case of a 67-year-old man, with a history of moderate-severe alcoholism, arterial hypertension and ischemic heart disease, who was transferred to the Emergency Department from another center where he attended 4 hours after ingesting an OP (Metasystox® : oxidemeton-methyl) in an attempt at autolysis. At the center of origin, gastric lavage was performed and a dose of activated charcoal was administered.
Upon arrival at the emergency room, the patient is conscious and oriented, hypotensive and bradycardic, with clear muscarinic manifestations: profuse sweating, hypersalivation, abundant tear secretion, and diffuse colicky pain with nausea and vomiting. At the nicotinic level, he does not present motor deficit but he does have some perceptible fasciculation in both thighs. During his visit to the Emergency Department, the patient presented generalized myoclonus, miosis and desaturation with peripheral cyanosis, probably secondary to fasciculations of the peripheral muscles and the diaphragm.
Given the symptoms, joint treatment with atropine and pralidoxime (1 g in 30 minutes) was started, achieving an improvement in peripheral symptoms, with a decrease in the number of fasciculations and disappearance of abdominal cramps. Additionally, a second dose of 25 g of activated charcoal and a bolus of intravenous diazepam are administered to control seizures.
Given their refractoriness, orotracheal intubation was performed to protect the airway and treatment with pralidoxime (12 g/day) and atropine (20 mg/day) was instituted, both in continuous infusion. Under these conditions he is admitted to the Intensive Surveillance Unit (ICU), where he remains for 12 days. During the first 10 days post-intoxication, he is maintained with the treatment established in the emergency room, according to the doses specified in Table I.
Until day 6 post-intoxication, the patient presents miosis and elevated peristalsis, and from this day on he manifests mydriasis and difficult tolerance to enteral nutrition as a consequence of the absence of peristalsis. This improves by reducing the dose of atropine. However, reactive mydriasis persists until discharge to the ward. Other patient symptoms, characteristic of OP poisoning, are generalized myoclonus and thoracic muscle weakness. This weakness could also be a consequence of the sedation to which he is subjected due to his agitated state. Towards day 5 post-intoxication, isolated facial myoclonus is perceptible, still in a neurological clinic context.
The progressive recovery of limb strength begins on day 6 post-intoxication, being complete on day 9. However, between these days, even under treatment with pralidoxime in continuous infusion, the patient develops SI with proximal and facial muscle weakness. . This causes hypoventilation due to muscle fatigue.
Regarding the respiratory symptoms, critical in OP poisoning, there is an episode of initial respiratory failure, subsequently corrected by keeping the patient under mechanical ventilation (MV) for up to 5 days after poisoning. From this day onwards, gradual disconnections of the MV begin, before which the patient tends to hypoventilate due to muscle fatigue. The improvement in respiratory function, although hindered by nosocomial tracheobronchiolitis due to H. influenzae, appears around day 8 post-intoxication. Despite psychomotor agitation, he tolerates MV disconnections that allow extubation one day after starting. However, a tendency toward hypoventilation persists throughout their stay in the ICU.
As a biomarker of exposure to the toxicant, plasma cholinesterase levels are assessed, the first determination of which, carried out 16 hours after ingestion, showed a level of 13 ukat/L (reference interval: 89-215 ukat/L). Its evolution can be seen in figure 1.