A 35-year-old male patient with no relevant medical history, except for a significant smoking habit (20-30 cigarettes/day for more than 10 years). He went to the urologist referred by his family doctor after suffering an episode of frank, self-limited hematuria. Subsequently, the patient presented other episodes of emission of small clots along with intense irritative voiding syndrome with repeatedly negative urine cultures. Initially, ultrasound and intravenous urography were performed, which showed a tumor at the level of the bladder trigone, 3 cm in diameter, with mild left ureteral ectasia. Kidney function was normal (Creatinine: 1.3 mg/dL, Plasma Urea: 42 mg/dL). On rectal examination, a certain increase in prostatic and bladder floor consistency was palpable.
Given the diagnosis of primary bladder tumor, the patient was asked about the need to perform a transurethral resection. Intraoperative cystoscopy confirmed the presence of a sessile bladder neoplasm, measuring 2-3 cm, with a bullous and ulcerated surface that was located over the trigonal area. The pathological result reported the presence of a neoplasm consisting of small undifferentiated cells, distributed in "single row", with some isolated focus of transitional carcinoma, PSA (-) without being able to determine the precise origin of the tumor. The infiltration affected the submucosa and muscle and the resection base was positive for tumor.
While awaiting the results of the complementary anatomopathological and extension studies in anticipation of a possible cystectomy, 36 days after the resection, the patient was admitted for a severe constitutional syndrome, with weight loss of 10-12 kg, pain in both renal fossae with bilateral grade II/IV hydronephrosis due to ureteral entrapment and obstructive renal failure (Creatinine 6.2 mg/dL, Urea: 176 mg/dL, K+:5.6 mEq/L). An urgent percutaneous nephrostomy-type urinary diversion was performed, with a rapid restoration of renal function, starting a new episode of macroscopic hematuria during admission. A cystoscopy was performed, which revealed a large sessile tumor at the base of the bladder with infiltration of both ureteral meatuses. Bimanual examination revealed an irregular induration of the bladder floor that seemed to infiltrate the prostate. An extension study was requested using a simple chest X-ray, abdomino-pelvic CT, and bone scanning. At this time, no distant metastatic disease was observed, with only thickening of the bladder floor, with bilateral uretero-pyelo-calyceal ectasia and absence of lymphadenopathy.

Given these findings, a radical cystoprostatectomy was performed with an Indiana-type continent pouch. During the intervention, the release of the bladder floor was difficult given its infiltration by the tumor. The pathological result confirmed the presence of an undifferentiated small cell carcinoma, with immunohistochemical stains: cytokeratin (+), neuronal specific enolase (NSE) and Chromogranin (-), along with small foci of transitional carcinoma. The tumor affected the full thickness of the bladder wall, right perivesical and periureteral fat, rectal wall, prostate, seminal vesicles and 2 of the 8 left common iliac nodes (Stage: T4N2M0). The patient's postoperative course was uneventful and he was discharged a week after the intervention.

Given the high risk of disease recurrence, given the involvement of surgical margins and the presence of lymphadenopathy, the tumor committee of our center decided to perform adjuvant Chemo-Radio-therapy. The CDDP chemotherapy regimen was established with concomitant radiotherapy to the pelvis with a dose of 50 Gy, at a rate of 180 cGy per session, 5 times per week, and subsequent superimposition with another 14.4 Gy. The patient's tolerance to this treatment regimen was optimal.
Three months after the intervention and during the administration of QT/RT, he came to the clinic complaining of discomfort in the right abdomen that radiated to the back with no other associated symptoms. In the control abdomino-pelvic CT, a reservoir with good capacity, small dilation of the right renal pelvis was observed, without evidence of collections or signs of tumor recurrence.
Another three months later, the patient presented epigastralgia with radiation to both hypochondria, a sensation of immediate postprandial distension and heartburn. On physical examination, a mass was seen at the level of the right hypochondrium-empty area, although a possible tumor recurrence at that level could not be seen by ultrasound. A gastroscopy was requested, which showed a retained stomach with an extrinsic pyloroduodenal stenosis, raising the possibility of metastatic infiltration of the tumor versus a possible stenosis secondary to radiotherapy. Given these findings, surgical intervention was decided, showing during the same period the presence of tumor recurrence in the right flank, invasion of the duodenum by the tumor and multiple neoplastic implants in the omentum, peritoneum and other serous membranes, for which palliative gastrojejunostomy was performed. After the postoperative period, the patient was sent home for palliative care, dying one month after discharge (7 months after cystectomy and 9 after diagnosis).