We present the case of a 29-year-old man who came to our clinic with a month-old condition that consisted of daily fever of 39º-40º, intense pain with pleuritic characteristics in the left hemithorax, and cough with abundant expectoration of blackish color. He had no relevant medical or surgical history. He had been a smoker of 20 cigarettes/day for 10 years. His physical examination was strictly normal, except for lung auscultation in which he presented an overall decrease in vesicular murmur with isolated areas of egophony. Various analytical studies were performed that included: blood count, general biochemistry, baseline arterial blood gas, creatinine clearance, calciuria, proteinogram, dosage of immunoglobulins and complement, C-reactive protein, rheumatoid factor, determination of angiotensin-converting enzyme and biological markers, being all normal results. The spirometry performed showed a restrictive pattern. A pulmonary diffusion test was performed, which revealed decreased diffusion (65%), compatible with a reduction in the exchange surface. A simple chest x-ray showed a bilateral interstitial pattern. A chest CT was performed where multiple pulmonary cystic lesions were seen, none of them larger than 2 centimeters, distributed in both lungs, especially in the upper and middle lobes. A lytic lesion was also observed at the level of the fourth left costal arch. The Thoracic Surgery Service was requested to perform an open lung biopsy. Samples were taken from the upper and lower lobes of the left lung. The histopathological study showed in the lung parenchyma, an infiltration by eosinophils and mononuclear cells with kidney-shaped nuclei typical of Langerhans cells. S-100 and CD1a immunohistochemical stains were positive. An electron microscopy study was performed and the characteristic Langerhans cells with polylobed nuclei and deep indentations were observed. Structures formed by two double membranes were also seen, separated by a dense structure that meets the characteristics of a Birbeck granule in its tubular portion. With the diagnosis of HPCL, the patient was recommended to quit smoking and was scheduled for a follow-up chest CT scan after 6 months. In this study, the almost complete disappearance of the cystic lesions was observed, with the rib lytic image persisting. Clinically, the patient presented a significant improvement, being asymptomatic except for the persistence of mild rib pain in the left hemithorax that corresponded to the lesion. bone observed on CT.