This is a 70-year-old male patient, who was admitted to the emergency service of the Pablo Tobón Uribe Hospital, with a history of approximately one hour consisting of chest tightness, general malaise, asthenia and diaphoresis; who started after having ingested 100 mg of sildenafil, denies ingestion of another sexual stimulant or cocaine and no sexual relationship after consumption. The only clinical history of the patient was that he suffered from arterial hypertension, controlled pharmacologically, and denied previous episodes of angina or nitrate consumption. His clinical examination and vital signs were normal; However, after the initial evaluation he presented cardiorespiratory arrest secondary to ventricular fibrillation with response to a single defibrillation of 200 joules.
The initial electrocardiogram showed elevation of the ST segment in the derivatives of the inferior face (II, III and aVF) and the anterior face (V2-V4) with reciprocal changes in aVL, without demonstrating electrocardiographic extension to the right ventricle.

Cardiac enzymes on admission revealed a creatine phosphokinase (CK) of 170 and a creatine phosphokinase fraction MB (CK-MB) of 6. Electrolytes, coagulation tests, and blood cell counts were normal.
Initial management was with aspirin 100 mg, lovastatin 40 mg every day, metoprolol 25 mg every 12 hours, enoxaparin 60 mg every 12 hours, oxygen at 3 liters/min and streptokinase 1,500,000 units administered in 30 minutes. No changes secondary to reperfusion were demonstrated. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit, where episodes of complete A-V block with spontaneous resolution were documented during the first hours of evolution.
The EKG taken 24 hours after the onset revealed QS on the inferior surface and late progression of the R wave on the anterior surface. Enzymatic monitoring showed an increase in CK and MB fraction at 6 hours (4476 and 165) and at 12 hours (3839 and 136).
The next day, a coronary angiography was performed, which showed diffuse disease of the anterior descending artery with a 50% lesion in the distal third and a 40% lesion in the proximal third of the first diagonal branch. The circumflex artery had a 50% lesion in the middle third and diffuse disease of its marginal obtuse branches. The right coronary artery presented an irregular lesion suggestive of a partially resolved thrombus, producing a maximum stenosis of 50%; Distally, the posterior descending artery had two 40% lesions.

The patient progressed satisfactorily without subsequent complications and was free of pain. He was discharged for outpatient follow-up.