A 27-year-old woman, active polydrug addict, who 15 days before admission began with dry cough, dyspnea of ​​progressive intensity, fever, asthenia, anorexia, nausea and vomiting. She had a history of recently diagnosed HIV infection, and her immunological and virological parameters were unknown. Examination on admission showed cachexia, 40 breaths/min, 120 beats/min. BP: 110/60 mm Hg, thrush, clubbing, bilateral cervical lymphadenopathy less than 1 cm and right supraclavicular lymphadenopathy of 2 cm. Generalized decrease in vesicular murmur and bibasal crackles, polyfocal II/VI systolic murmur, hepatomegaly 2 cm from the costal edge and vulvar condylomas. The rest of the somatic and neurological examination were normal. The following complementary tests were performed upon admission: Hb 11.3 g/dL, 6,900 leukocytes/µL (79% segmented, 14% lymphocytes), 682,000 platelets/µL; sodium 119 mmol/L, LDH 603 UI/L, the rest of the autoanalyzer values ​​being normal. Baseline arterial blood gas on admission: pH 7.54, pCO2 34.8 mm Hg, pO2 73.4 mmHg. The chest x-ray shows a right anterior mediastinal mass that compresses and displaces the trachea and a bilateral alveolar-interstitial infiltrate. Subsequently, abdominal ultrasound and thoracic, abdominal and pelvic CT were performed in which bilateral axillary lymphadenopathy less than one cm, a large mediastinal mass that compresses the trachea and superior vena cava, a resolving pulmonary interstitial pattern and thickening of the wall of intestinal loops with small amount of free liquid between them. A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed in which no abnormalities were found. Treatment was started with cotrimoxazole, levofloxacin and amphotericin-B, despite which he developed progressive respiratory failure, requiring mechanical ventilation. During the following days, improvement in respiratory failure was observed, making it possible to withdraw from mechanical ventilation. Later he presented a generalized tonic-clonic seizure followed by left hemiparesis; CT and MRI of the head were performed, revealing a thick-walled mass with a hypodense center measuring 4 cm in diameter at the right temporo-parieto-occipital junction. Sulfadiazine, pyrimethamine, folic acid and phenytoin are added to the treatment, which are withdrawn three weeks later due to the absence of clinical improvement and reduction of the intracranial lesion. FNAC and biopsy of supraclavicular adenopathy was performed, which was reported as metastasis from an undifferentiated malignant tumor of epithelial origin. Later, the following results are received: CD4+ lymphocytes: 440/mL, HIV viral load: 25,000 copies/mL, normal alpha-fetoprotein and b-HCG: 650 mIU/mL (normal < 5). Microbiological studies in blood, urine, sputum, broccoaspirate and lymph node puncture were negative for bacteria, mycobacteria and fungi. Stains of respiratory samples were negative for P. carinii (P. jiroveci). Serologies for Toxoplasma, hepatotropic viruses and RPR were negative; cryptococcal antigen was negative.

Diagnosis and evolution: Initially, the diagnosis of diffuse pneumonia was made, presumably due to P. carinii (P. jiroveci) and probable disseminated lymphoma with mediastinal, cerebral and intestinal involvement. After receiving the results of the lymph node biopsy and the tumor markers (alpha-fetoprotein and ß-HCG), the definitive diagnosis is made: extragonadal germ cell tumor with supraclavicular and mediastinal lymph node involvement, and probably brain. The patient was offered a tumor extension study and started treatment with polychemotherapy, which she rejected, despite it being explained to her that the high chemosensitivity of the tumor made it potentially curable. The patient died in another center several weeks after discharge.