A 60-year-old man was diagnosed in another hospital in 2000 with type III extracapillary glomerulonephritis associated with C-ANCA. He was treated with 5 intravenous boluses of 6-methylprednisolone followed by oral corticosteroids in a descending regimen associated with oral cyclophosphamide (we have not been able to obtain the exact dosage). At the time, cyclophosphamide was discontinued due to myelotoxicity.
In 2002 he was included in the periodic hemodialysis program.
In September 2006, at another transplant center, he received a cadaver kidney graft. The patient received tacrolinus monotherapy, although we cannot be sure if he had previously received any other combination of immunosuppressants. His serum creatinines ranged between 1.5 and 1.7 mg/dl.
In December 2013, due to the implantation of a percutaneous aortic valve in our hospital, a pre- and post-intervention assessment was carried out in our department. At that time his clinical situation was good, with serum creatinine of 1.5 mg/dl and proteinuria 0.3 g/day, with normal urinary sediment.
In October 2014, given the appearance of respiratory symptoms with fever and deterioration of kidney function, the patient decided to transfer him to our hospital for clinical control. The fever and respiratory symptoms, without microbiological or radiological evidence, improved with empirical treatment with levofloxacin. However, kidney function worsened in a few days until reaching serum creatinines of 4 mg/dl, with proteinuria of 6.8 g/day and hematuria. The determination of C-ANCA was 74.2 IU/ml (normal values: 0-5 IU/ml) and P-ANCA 8.4 IU/ml (normal values: 0-6 IU/ml). The rest of the autoimmunity parameters (ANA, anti-GBM antibodies, complement, cryoglobulins, etc.) were negative. HIV, HCV, HBV serology and CMV and BK viremia were also negative.
A biopsy of the kidney graft was performed in which the most relevant findings were: of the 19 evaluable glomeruli, 3 presented global glomerular sclerosis, 12 glomeruli presented cellular crescents. Some of them presented disruption of Bowman's capsule that causes a pseudogranulomatous inflammatory reaction of mononucleated cells. In 2 glomeruli there were lesions compatible with fibrinoid necrosis. We found tubular necrosis in 15%, tubular atrophy in 20% and some blood casts, in addition to interstitial infiltrate in 25% with some eosinophils and foci of recent interstitial hemorrhage and arteriolar hyalinosis, with some image of mucoid degeneration of the wall without transmural infiltrate. The immunofluorescence study was negative. The immunohistochemical study for C4d was negative.

Given evidence of a recurrence of the underlying disease, the patient received 3 intravenous boluses of 500 mg of 6-methylprednisolone (the patient was diabetic) on consecutive days, followed by oral prednisone at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg/day. in a descending pattern. Likewise, 8 sessions of plasmapheresis were applied and treatment was started with mycophenolate mofetil (1 g/12 h, orally) associated with tacrolimus.
Twelve days after admission, the patient was discharged with a serum creatinine of 2.9 mg/dl. At an outpatient follow-up one month later, creatinine was 2.3 mg/dl and proteinuria was 3.6 g/day.