65-year-old patient diagnosed with Gleason 6/10 prostate adenocarcinoma in both prostate lobes (TNM Stage 2003 T1c). PSA at diagnosis 9.43 ng/ml. In January 2006, the patient underwent a radical retorpubic prostatectomy (Pathology report: Gleason 6/10 pT2c prostate adenocarcinoma with tumor-free margins). During the dissection of the posterior aspect of the prostate opening 2 cm in the anterior aspect of the rectum. Direct closure of the rectal wall with loose sutures. No other intraoperative complications. On the fifth postoperative day, the patient presented fever (37.6ºC), abdominal pain, urinary fistula, fecaluria, and signs of peritonitis on physical examination. An abdominal CT scan showed free retrohepatic fluid, so urgent laparotomy was performed, visualizing fecal peritonitis secondary to perforation in the sigmoid and abundant urine and feces in the pelvis. A new vesicourethral suture, resection of the perforated sigmoid segment and discharge colostomy were performed.
After urgent surgery, the patient presented septic symptoms, requiring admission to the ICU for respiratory support. During the septic condition, the patient presents a urinary fistula with abundant urine output through the drainage and infection of the surgical wound.
After respiratory and hemodynamic stabilization, the patient was discharged from the ICU with a patent colostomy. Clear urine. Subsequently, disappearance of urinary fistula and fat necrosis in the distal third of the surgical wound, observing abdominal muscles as the bottom of the ulcer.
In March 2006, cystography was performed, observing contrast passage from the urethrovesical junction to the rectal ampulla. With the diagnosis of vesico-rectal fistula, conservative treatment is indicated using bladder catheterization until resolution of surgical wound infection and closure by secondary intention.

In October 2006, given the persistence of the fistulous orifice, urethro-rectal fistula closure and mucosal advancement plasty were performed transanally. One month after surgery, cystography was performed, and no contrast leakage outside the urinary tract was observed, so the urinary catheter was removed.

In March 2007, colostomy closure and abdominal wall eventhroplasty with mesh were performed.
In June 2007, the patient presented comfortable spontaneous urination and normal bowel movements. Absence of urinary incontinence. Erectile dysfunction treated with phosphodiesterase inhibitors and PSA less than 0.15 ng/ml.