T. I. is a 38-year-old woman who came to our unit, referred from the burn unit of another hospital in Barcelona, ​​due to a psychotic condition. The patient suffered burns after a fire in her home that required a month of admission to the unit.
The patient reported no personal or family history of mental illness. She also denied drug use. Her somatic history only highlighted: cesarean delivery five months ago, infection of the surgical wound; and second and third degree burns from the aforementioned fire.
In the patient's psychobiography she highlighted that she was a native of Casablanca (Morocco) and the sixth of nine siblings (5 boys and 4 girls). She was educated until she was twenty years old with good performance (school and high school, plus 2 years of complementary training). The socio-laboral adjustment in her country was correct (she had various temporary jobs as a stewardess, shop assistant, sports instructor, etc.). She got married in her country a year and a half ago by family agreement (before she had never had a partner or male friends) and a month later she moved to live in the province of Girona (Spain), where she lived with her husband, her brother-in-law. and his wife. Since her marriage, the patient dedicated herself to household chores. Her first child (a boy) was born five months ago in a complicated birth.
Two months ago, a fire broke out in her home under unclear circumstances, which led to her being admitted to the burn unit of a hospital. Upon admission to our Unit, the patient was alert, conscious and disoriented temporally and spatially. Contact with the patient was psychotic; Her speech was sparse, in a low voice and with a monotonous tone of voice. She reported a prejudiced and paranoid delusion that she did not specify to us. She seemed distrustful. She reported hypothymia, fear dysthymia, as well as auditory hallucinations in the form of "noises." Her examination revealed poor fixation memory.
In the successive interviews with the patient (several of them with the help of a translator) she reported that two months after giving birth she began a mood disorder that ranged between sadness or crying and elevated mood. Progressively, a delirium of prejudice toward her and her son appeared, as well as auditory hallucinations in the form of voices that criticized her and gave orders to her. In relation to said psychotic clinic, the patient explained anguish and intense fear of suffering harm (to herself or her child) as well as her voluntary isolation as a protective measure. When exploring the hours before the fire, during it and during her stay in the burn unit, the patient explained a fluctuating level of consciousness and memory loss, so the suspicion of an expanded suicide could not be ruled out in the context. of the hallucinatory-delusional picture.
During her stay in the acute unit she was initiated on pharmacological treatment with Haloperidol up to 11.5 mg/d (with progressive dose reduction), Amisulpride (up to 800 mg/d) and Clonazepam. A few hours after admission she was already alert, conscious and oriented. The first few days the patient still remained fearful and suspicious, barely leaving her room. She slowly improved contact, affection, and her psychotic symptoms; The hallucinations progressively disappeared and she distanced herself from the delusional content until she was able to criticize it. She gradually adapted to the dynamics of the unit. It was considered key to the patient's treatment and recovery to facilitate early and continued contact with her son and permission to the family home; In fact, early mother-child contact was an important factor that accelerated the patient's recovery. The leave passed without incident and the family collaborated adequately at all times.
At discharge, the patient appeared euthymic, calm, free of positive psychotic psychopathology and was capable of taking care of her son (although the amnestic condition secondary to the confusional condition persisted). The patient and her family raised the possibility of convalescent in Morocco, which we considered beneficial since she would be cared for by professionals with the same language and culture and would have the support of her family of origin; But the importance of traveling with her son was highlighted so that the transfer was truly therapeutic.