A 35-year-old man presented with sudden loss of central vision in his left eye. His personal history includes having had a common cold in the 10 days prior to the episode.
The clinical examination revealed an uncorrected visual acuity (UCVA) of 0.9 in the right eye, and 0.1 in the left eye, with metamorphopsia in the latter. No inflammatory signs or abnormalities are observed in the anterior segment.
The left eye fundus presents a macular thickening of approximately 2 papillary diameters (PD) with small intraretinal hemorrhages. In the fundus of the right eye, a yellowish-white lesion with the diameter of a papilla, temporally inferior to the macula, was observed. As complementary examinations, fluorescein angiography (FGA) and indocyanine green angiography (IVA), optical coherence tomography (OCT), B-mode ultrasound, as well as a complete blood analysis are performed.

In the AGF of the LE, a pattern of patchy hypofluorescence appears at very early times, followed by diffuse hyperfluorescence of the posterior pole with a better-defined 1 PD hyperfluorescent area located subfoveally. In the AVI, a hypofluorescent area with poorly defined borders is observed in the posterior pole that persists over angiographic times.

OCT shows a loss of foveal thickness due to the existence of a subfoveal intraretinal cyst accompanied by small areas of perifoveal neurosensory retinal detachment (NSRD).

Both the ultrasound and the analytical study did not provide findings of interest.
Given this bilateral but asymmetrical yellowish-white lesion, of inflammatory origin and located in the chorioretinal interface, we established as a probable diagnosis an acute posterior placoid epitheliopathy with atypical presentation.
Due to the great loss of VA, treatment with oral systemic corticosteroids was instituted, administering 1 mg/kg of prednisone; One daily omeprazole tablet was also prescribed.
After 2 weeks, the patient came for a follow-up appointment reporting a very slight improvement in his OI. The AVSC is 0.9 and 0.15 respectively. In the fundus of the eye, an increase in the pigmentation of the lesions begins to be seen without any other signs of interest. The OCT shows alteration of the subfoveal RPE in the LE, with no evidence of the small perifoveal DRNS previously described. That is when the corticosteroid regimen began to be reduced.

After 5 weeks, the patient showed significant improvement with an AVSC of 0.9 in his RE and 0.6 in his LE. In Fig. 5A we show the healing of the lesions that we corroborated with a control AGF.
In the last control carried out one year after the start of the episode, the patient showed complete recovery of his visual acuity with 0.9 in both eyes without correction. In the fundus we observed the hyperpigmentation of the lesions corresponding to their healing.