A 46-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital in March 2005 due to a painful mass in the external third of the left upper eyelid of 6 months' duration, accompanied by decreased ipsilateral visual acuity (VA). The patient reported the development of a similar mass 15 years prior to her admission, which was successfully managed with unspecified medical treatment. The rest of the history is unimportant for the current condition.
The ophthalmological examination revealed a VA of 0.7 in the right eye (RE) and 0.2 in the left eye (LE). In the external third of the left upper eyelid there was a 4 ¥ 3.5 cm mass, painful accompanied by ptosis, inferior displacement of the eyeball on the same side. He had limitation to levosupraversion of the LE. Base 100 exophthalmometry was 17 mm for both eyes. The eyelid opening was 10 mm in the RE and 4 mm in the LE. The function of the left levator muscle was limited.
A computed tomography scan of both orbits was requested with axial and coronal sections, which demonstrated a cystic-looking temporal mass with bone destruction, which invaded the orbit and displaced the left eyeball downwards, apparently dependent on the frontal sinus.
Aspiration of the mass was performed, from which a dense yellowish liquid was obtained. In a smear of this content, few Gram-positive cocci were found in pairs and chains, accompanied by numerous polymorphonuclear leukocytes and abundant mucus. Treatment was started with oral ampicillin, dicloxacillin and naproxen and topical sulfacetamide.
The patient underwent drainage of the contents of the paranasal sinus with removal of its wall. Microscopically, hematoxylin and eosin-stained preparations demonstrated fragments lined by respiratory-type epithelium. Below the epithelium, the wall was formed by a stroma of dense connective tissue with areas of hemorrhage mixed with variable clusters of inflammatory infiltrate formed by mature lymphocytes, plasma cells, polymorphonuclear leukocytes and numerous eosinophils. The diagnosis of frontal sinus mucocele was established. The presence of a large number of eosinophils as part of the inflammatory infiltrate suggested a probable allergic or hypersensitivity etiology.