A 30-year-old Caucasian man with no significant medical history was referred to our service for choroidal melanoma in the left eye (LE) in November 2005.
Since August 2005, the patient perceived a unilateral decrease in visual acuity (VA) in the LE. For a month he had been complaining of eye pain in that eye.
The VA of the right eye (RE) was 10/10 with a spherical correction of -0.5 D, that of the LE was <1/10 without correction and 8/10 with added spherical correction of -5 D.
The ophthalmological examination of the OD did not show any particularities.
The LE slit lamp examination showed marked ciliary injection, a mild inflammatory reaction in the anterior chamber, and a bulging iris; eye pressure (OT) was 17 mmHg. At the bottom of the LE, the presence of a circumscribed amelanotic mass in the nasal sector stood out. The B-ultrasound demonstrated a thickening of the ocular wall that exceeded 5 mm. A hypoechoic area was observed in the extra-scleral space. With fluorescein and indocyanine green angiography, this lesion was surrounded by well-visualized choroidal folds; No intratumoral vascular network was observed.

An orbito-cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) confirmed nodular-looking scleral thickening that captured contrast in the postero-internal area of ​​the LE, without revealing other lesions.

A thorough study in search of a rheumatic etiology (rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibodies, cANCA, antiphospholipid antibodies) and an infectious etiology (TPHA, toxocarosis) was negative. Blood calcium levels were normal: 2.39 mmol/l. The chest x-ray was normal. The angiotensin-converting enzyme, slightly increased: 73U/L (normal, 10-55), was compatible with a granulomatous condition, but the rest of the tests have not shown any other arguments in favor of sarcoidosis or tuberculosis. .
Taking into account the anamnesis, the clinical, angiographic, and ultrasound examination, and the MRI, the diagnosis of giant posterior scleritis was made. An extra-scleral biopsy was performed and the result of the histopalological examination confirmed granulomatous scleritis compatible with sarcoidosis (absence of pathogenic agents visible with Ziehl-Neelsen, Gram, silver metamine and PAS staining).

Oral corticosteroid treatment was instituted at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day, progressively lowering the dose, due to a good therapeutic response, to 0.5 mg/kg/day after 6 months of treatment. A local regimen in the LE of dexamethasone 0.1% 1 drop 3 times a day was associated to treat inflammation in the anterior chamber; and atropine 1% 1 drop 3 times a day, to reduce ciliary spasm.
The LE control examination at 6 months showed a VA of 10/10 with a spherical correction of +0.50 D. The ciliary injection disappeared as well as the inflammatory reaction in the anterior chamber, the lens was transparent; the OT was 15 mmHg. In the fundus the solid elevation in the nasal sector flattened. In the B ultrasound, the total thickness of the ocular wall in the lower nasal sector was approximately 2 mm.