Male, 32 years old, with colon neoplasia with hepatic, retroperitoneal and mediastinal metastases, rapidly evolving on a background of ulcerative colitis.
A week after diagnosis, despite presenting an advanced stage, he was admitted for surgery with partial tumor resection, starting postoperatively chemotherapy treatment with different consecutive therapeutic lines oxaliplatin+folinic acid+fluoracil, capecitabine+oxaliplatin, and capecitabine+irinotecan. , unanswered. The K-ras gene was even determined, for possible treatment with cetuximab or panitumumab, being negative, and therefore, ruling out this therapeutic alternative. Furthermore, treatment with bevacizumab is not advisable as it presents drainage in the abdominal cavity, with the production of purulent material.
15 days after the surgical intervention, the patient reported moderate left eye pain, so they requested a consultation with our service. On ophthalmological examination, the patient presented moderate eyelid edema, conjunctival chemosis, severe non-reducible exophthalmos, complete ptosis in the left eye, and limitation of ocular motility in all gaze positions, but especially in lateral and in the supraversion.
Given this, we requested cranial and orbital magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), with T1-weighted and axial diffusion-weighted and FLAIR images. Two nodular lesions are observed in the left orbit, one of them measuring 2x1cm, located in the upper region, with involvement of the superior rectus and levator palpebrae muscles; and the second, located at the level of the apex, with involvement of the external rectum, all highly suggestive of metastasis of the extrinsic ocular muscles.

Due to the patient's poor general condition, palliative radiotherapy was ruled out, and boluses of methylprednisolone were started at a dose of 1g/day, with partial pain relief. However, 48 hours after the second bolus of corticosteroid therapy, the patient presented extreme abdominal and ocular pain, so palliative sedation was decided, resulting in the patient's death.