A 64-year-old man reported bilateral, progressive and painless vision loss, which had affected the left eye (LE) for 7 days and which in the last 48 hours had also begun to affect the right eye (RE). His medical history included being a heavy smoker and the death of a brother due to lung cancer. In the ophthalmological examination we found a corrected visual acuity of 0.4 in RE and hand movement in LE. The intraocular pressure and the anterior segment were normal, and the funduscopy showed moderate vitritis in both eyes, with slight hyperemia of the RE papilla, and papillary pallor in the LE. It was decided to admit him for study, with the initial diagnosis of papillitis with bilateral vitritis.

The neurological examination, as well as the blood count and biochemistry were normal. The chest x-ray showed slight thickening of the right pulmonary hilum, and the head CT scan was normal. Lumbar puncture only showed a slight elevation of proteins. With these data, it was decided to start treatment with bolus corticosteroids and antiplatelet therapy.

The angiofluoresceinography showed hyperuptake in the papilla without signs of vasculitis. The evoked potentials were normal in RE and compatible with an axonal neuropathy in LE. The electroretinogram and brain MRI were normal. Serology, immunology, and routine tumor markers were negative.
With the tests obtained, an infectious, vascular or demyelizing etiology was ruled out, so an infiltrative etiology or a paraneoplastic syndrome was assessed. A thoraco-abdominal CT scan was requested and showed an image of 3 cm in the right hilum, compatible with lymphadenopathy. Bronchoscopy reported a widening of the carina, and cytology was negative for malignancy. A PET study was considered to better assess the lymphadenopathy and refer to Thoracic Surgery to perform a mediastinoscopy. In addition, samples of cerebrospinal fluid, plasma and aqueous humor were extracted to study the CRMP-5-IgG autoantibody, which was positive in the first two. Positivity for CRMP-5-IgG and the presence of neuritis is associated in 62.5% of cases with the existence of small cell lung carcinoma (2,3).

With these data, it was decided to cancel the PET study and perform mediastinoscopy, which was reported as small cell lung carcinoma. The Oncology Service classified it as limited-stage small cell carcinoma, initiating treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
The initial response to corticosteroid treatment was good, improving vision to 0.7-0.3 at 15 days and reaching a final visual acuity at six months, when we considered the study closed, of 0.8 in OD and 0. 6 in LE, with an ad integrum restitution of the funduscopic image.