A 64-year-old woman diagnosed with chronic open-angle glaucoma whose left eye underwent viscocanalostomy surgery. Her best corrected visual acuity was 0.7 and 0.8 in the right eye (RE) and left eye (LE), respectively. The preoperative intraocular pressure (IOP) in the LE was 26 mmHg despite treatment with the combination of timolol maleate and dorzolamide twice daily together with latanoprost once daily. In the RE, with the same regimen, the IOP was 17 mmHg. Both in the study of the optic papillae and in the monitoring of the visual field, a progressive deterioration in the LE was confirmed.
It was decided to perform a viscocanalostomy according to the usual Stegmann technique1. We performed the conjunctival dissection based on the fornix and after dissecting a scleral flap that surpassed Schwalbe's line, we created a second, deeper scleral flap, which was removed, where we proceeded to locate Schlemm's canal and carefully channel it inward by injecting the viscoelastic. Finally, we proceeded to strongly suture the superficial scleral flap with 10-0 nylon.
24 hours after the intervention, the patient had a Descemet membrane detachment (DMD) in the inferior temporal quadrant measuring 5.0 x 5.0 mm. The space between Descemet's membrane and the corneal stroma had significant hematic and viscoelastic filling. Her visual acuity (VA) was at this time 0.5 and her IOP was 16 mmHg. Treatment with mydriatics (cyclopentolate) and topical steroids (dexamethasone) was prescribed and serial controls were carried out by monitoring VA, biomicroscopy, gonioscopy and measuring intraocular pressure.

Two weeks after the intervention, the state of the corneal inclusion remained practically unchanged, and moderate corneal edema was also observed, causing a decrease in VA to 0.05, so surgical reapplication was decided using the following technique: With a myringotome, an intentional tear was made in the lower part of the descemetic detachment and by repeatedly introducing air and balanced saline solution into the anterior chamber, both the viscoelastic and the hematoma were drained through the descemetic surgical opening. Subsequently, SF6 was injected to keep the corneal endothelium applied.

One week after this procedure, the DMD was completely reapplied, with folds radiating from the affected area, but with complete disappearance of corneal edema, and recovery of VA to 0.8. His IOP without medication was 16 mmHg.