A 4-year-old patient was referred to the Ophthalmology clinic in June 2008 from Pediatrics, with a diagnosis of congenital ptosis of the left eye, which according to the parents had been evident since he was two years old. Parents report that he tends to rub that eye a lot. Normal pregnancy, full term by cesarean section. Only coagulation problems of the mother during pregnancy, treated with subcutaneous heparin, stand out.
On examination, a slight asymmetry between the upper eyelids was observed, with the inner third of the left upper eyelid slightly lowered. No masses are palpable in that area. Visual acuity is 0.8 in both eyes with the Snellen E test. Normal ocular motility, negative Cover test. Fundus without alterations.
He came for a new evaluation after five months, reporting itching in his left eye. In the new examination, a discrete bulge was seen in the inner third of the upper eyelid of the left eye. There is no clear limitation in the motility of said eye, but it appears to be in slight hypotropia. Rest of the normal scan. A differential diagnosis is proposed between motility alteration or orbital mass. Evaluation by pediatric ophthalmology was decided and imaging technique was requested.

In the consultation with children's ophthalmology a week later, uncorrected visual acuity was observed, 1 in the right eye, and 0.7 in the left eye, which at 1.25 to 40o reaches unity. Negative cover test in primary position with slight limitation to adduction and elevation, normal stereopsis and fundus without alterations. A mass was sensed by palpation in the inner third of the upper eyelid. In the waiting time until the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed, the astigmatism increases.
MRI shows a tumor in the superointernal angle of the left orbit, which compresses the eyeball, compatible with a dermoid cyst, for which surgical treatment is indicated. Anterior orbitotomy was performed through the inner third of the eyelid fold. Intraoperatively, a well-defined lesion was detected in the orbital superoinner quadrant, which was removed in its entirety. A week after the intervention, the symmetry between both upper eyelids and the position of the eye are recovered.