A 33-year-old woman was referred to the Ocular Oncology Unit for evaluation of a pigmented lesion in the iris of the right eye (RE) discovered during routine examination. On examination, she had average myopia in both eyes with visual acuity of 0.8. The left eye did not show pathological findings, while in RE a rounded pigmented mass of approximately 3-4 mm in diameter was observed in the upper outer quadrant of the anterior chamber (AC) between the 9 and 11 o'clock meridians. The mass presented a smooth and regular surface that did not infiltrate the iris. The IOP was normal, and gonioscopy showed occupation of the angle by the mass without satellite lesions. In the examination under mydriasis, it was observed that it originated in the ciliary body, producing a notch in the transparent lens and a fundus without assessable pathology. Computed Axial Tomography (CT) showed the existence of a rounded mass located between the root of the iris and the ciliary body with moderate contrast enhancement, 8.3 mm high and 7.5 mm in diameter, without signs of extraocular extension. A diagnosis of probable ciliary body melanocytoma was made, and as the patient was asymptomatic and with good visual function, periodic observation was decided. The patient remained stable for 36 months until, coinciding with an episode of corneal erosion due to the use of contact lenses, she developed a picture of inflammation in CA, with the presence of pigment dispersion, excavation of the tumor mass and an increase in IOP resistant to usual medical treatment. This condition was diagnosed as melanocytomalytic glaucoma and surgical treatment was decided. Abexternal iridocyclectomy was performed with excision of the tumor mass. The patient has progressed favorably and after one year she maintains a VA of 0.3.
In the histopathological study, a pigmented mass measuring 9x8x8 mm was observed, with an extensive central necrotic area, and the rest composed of densely pigmented, polyhedral cells, with a rounded and central nucleus, characteristics of melanocytoma with large areas of necrosis. No atypical cells were found.