We present the case of a 24-year-old man who came to the emergency room due to decreased bilateral VA and headache for two days. As a notable personal history, the patient reported a flu-like illness the previous week treated with ibuprofen 600 mg. On examination, the VA of the right eye is lumpy and the VA of the left eye is 0.05. The pupils are isochoric and normoreactive and biomicroscopy of the anterior pole is normal. In ophthalmoscopy we observed confluent white-grayish lesions in the posterior pole in both eyes that affected the fovea. Given the suspicion of EPPMA, fluorescein angiography (FGA) was performed, where areas of marked hypofluorescence were observed in early times that became areas of hyperfluorescence in late times. Indocyanine green angiography (ICG) shows areas of hypofluorescence in the choroid that correspond to placoid lesions that are related to the choroidal hypoperfusion that accompanies this pathology. Optical coherence tomography shows retinal thickening with hyperreflectivity at the level of the outer retinal layers. Oral corticosteroid treatment (prednisone 60 mg) was started and continued for one week.

On the other hand, the patient reported an intense headache that improved with corticosteroid treatment and that reappeared when the medication was discontinued. Therefore, given the suspicion of cerebral vasculitis, which is sometimes associated with this condition, a magnetic resonance angiography (MRI) was performed. ), in which no signs of vasculitis were observed.
A histocompatibility study for HLA B-7 and HLA DR2 was requested, which turned out to be positive.
Regarding the evolution, visual acuity gradually improved but after a month of follow-up the patient reported diplopia in distance vision. The examination revealed paralysis of the right 6th cranial nerve, with slight limitation of abduction of the right eye, a fact that was confirmed with the Hess-Lancaster Test. An injection of botulinum toxin was performed in the middle rectum of the right eye and after a week the diplopia disappeared.
Currently, the diplopia has disappeared and the VA is 0.7 in the right eye and 0.8 in the left eye. OCT demonstrates recovery of foveal architecture, but with an increase in retinal reflectivity in both eyes.