A 72-year-old male patient who suffered severe head trauma due to a traffic accident, presenting a score of 8 on the Glasgow Coma Scale at the time of admission. He clinically associated severe thoracic and pelvic trauma that required orotracheal intubation and thoracic drainage. Cranial CT showed intraventricular bleeding and a slight right frontoparietal subarachnoid hemorrhage, which evolved as subdural hygromas. There were no lesions in the posterior fossa. The facial CT scan revealed a multiple fracture of the facial mass including the roof and medial wall of the left orbit.
When the patient leaves the ICU and is clinically stable, the ophthalmological study revealed a VA of 0.7 in both eyes. Biomicroscopy showed moderate phacosclerosis without the presence of other alterations. In the funduscopy, myelinated nerve fibers were found as a casual finding in both eyes, the papillae were normal and there were no alterations of the posterior pole or peripheral lesions. In the study of intrinsic ocular motility, anisocoria with mydriasis of the left eye appeared. Regarding extrinsic motility, a complete paralysis of both abductor nerves and the left oculomotor nerve was observed (including ptosis). Clinically it manifested itself with torticollis, as well as diplopia in all positions, resulting in disabling.
Given that none of the lesions described radiologically justified the clinical findings, nor were they susceptible to surgical treatment, it was decided to complete the study with a cranial MRI to find a pathophysiological explanation for the clinical findings. This examination revealed the existence of subcortical petechiae and focal lesions of the corpus callosum, all of which is compatible with the diagnosis of diffuse axonal damage. No structural lesions were found in the brainstem.
After four months of evolution, the patient presented combined paralysis that had not improved clinically. As a therapeutic procedure, injection of botulinum toxin (5 IU Botox) was performed in both middle rectums. The clinical improvement was maintained for three months, after which the symptoms reappeared.