70-year-old patient who came to our Service due to decreased visual acuity of the left eye.
His personal history included type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and allergy to pyrazolones.
On examination he had a corrected visual acuity of 0.5 in the right eye and 0.1 in the left eye. Examination of the anterior pole revealed incipient opacity of the lens in both eyes. Intraocular pressure of 16mm Hg in both eyes. In the fundus examination, peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy was observed with a yellowish-white discoloration that affected the nasal retina and temporal vascular arcades in both eyes and that in the left eye affected the macula. He did not have vitritis.

In the AGF, early hypofluorescence and variable late hyperfluorescence of the lesions were observed in both eyes with macular involvement in the left eye.

The patient was diagnosed with serpiginous choroiditis, and treatment was initiated with oral corticosteroids in the form of oral prednisone at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day until 2 weeks after obtaining a therapeutic response, at which time the dose was reduced to 0.5 mg/kg. /day. Subsequently at 4 weeks she was reduced to alternate days and at 8 weeks she was reduced to 0.1 mg/kg/day, with visual acuity remaining stable. The patient was referred to the Internal Medicine Service for adjustment of insulin doses due to the start of corticosteroid treatment.
Six months later, the patient went to the Gynecology Service due to metrorrhagia, which after examination revealed a carcinoma of the uterine cervix that had evolved with involvement of the lower third of the vagina.

The patient is referred to the Oncology Service, which begins treatment with 40 mg of intramuscular methylprednisolone for 3 days a week associated with chemotherapy and radiotherapy for 5 weeks.
Two months later, given the imminent macular involvement of the second eye, azathioprine was added to the treatment at a dose of 1.5 mg/kg/day, which was reduced to 1 mg/kg/day after two months and oral prednisone was reduced according to protocol4.
The patient died a year later due to multiple organ failure.