A 42-year-old man comes to the emergency room due to bilateral and progressive decrease in vision that has been going on for several weeks.
His personal history highlighted the existence of chronic liver disease due to virus C and long-standing autoimmune Evans syndrome (autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura with anemia), which had required splenectomy 20 years ago. Maintenance treatment was 30 mg of oral prednisone every other day.
In the ophthalmological examination, the best-corrected visual acuity was OD 0.3 and OS 0.2. Biomicroscopically, there was a 1+ posterior subcapsular cataract in OD and 2+ in OS. Using funduscopy, multiple areas of neurosensory and retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) detachment were observed in the posterior pole of both eyes, as well as small, rounded, discreet, and sparse whitish lesions in the equatorial retina of both eyes. Additionally, in OS there were other peripheral scarring lesions with pigmentation. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) revealed detachments affecting the macula of both eyes.

An angiofluoresceinography was indicated, which was not performed because after 2 days the patient was admitted due to high fever, laterocervical lymphadenopathy, and persistent diarrhea. He was treated empirically with cefotaxime and corticosteroid therapy, but progressed unfavorably, presenting respiratory difficulty with progressive deterioration of his general condition. A CT scan confirmed the existence of a large mediastinal widening, and the biopsy of the cervical lymphadenopathy showed diffuse large B cell lymphoma with a CD20+ marker. With the diagnosis of stage II E diffuse large B cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma, he was administered 6 cycles of CHOP chemotherapy and rituximab. Throughout the chemotherapy treatment (especially from the 3rd cycle onwards), the patient already experienced a clear visual improvement, showing the progressive reapplication of all the foci of sensory detachment and RPE, leaving retinochoroidal scars with pigment redistribution. Six months after chemotherapy, complete remission of the lymphoma was confirmed by CT and scintigraphy, and the retinas were attached and the old exudative lesions had a scarred and inactive appearance. The resolution of the detachments was confirmed using OCT. The VA was 0.7 in OD and 0.6 in OS and the patient is awaiting cataract surgery.