A 29-year-old man presented with alterations in peripheral vision for several weeks recently associated with manifestations of pituitary hypofunction.
On examination he had a visual acuity (VA) of 1 in both eyes (AO), with normal anterior pole, intraocular pressure and fundus (FO). In the visual field (CV) (Octopus 1-2-3 program G1X) a superior arcuate defect was observed with some peripheral alterations in the right eye (RE) and in the left eye (LE) a superior altitudinal defect was observed as well as peripheral defects.

Urinalysis revealed practically water hypodensity and hormonal functioning studies showed undetectable FSH and LH, testosterone and growth hormone at levels below normal.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed dilation of the left lateral ventricle, periventricular involvement of the third ventricle, the hypothalamus, as well as the region of the chiasm and the optic nerves that captured contrast, compatible with granulomas in the aforementioned locations.

In the thoraco-abdomino-pelvic computed tomography (CT) with contrast, numerous lymph nodes were observed at the cervical, bilateral supraclavicular, bilateral axillary and also at the thoracic and pelvic levels. A deep axillary lymphadenopathy was biopsied and the study was compatible with sarcoidosis.
The patient was diagnosed with systemic sarcoidosis with involvement of the central nervous system, involvement of the chiasm, optic nerve, hypothalamic-pituitary axis with panhypopituitarism (hypogonadism, hypocorticism, decreased growth and antidiuretic hormones).
Treatment was started with pulses of methylprednisolone 1g/d for 3 days, and with vasopressin.
At one and four years the patient was stable and hormonally controlled. The alterations in the CV were permanent although stable and without progression.

The VA was 1 in AO and the fundus showed a slightly vertical papilla with paleness in the temporal region accompanied by peripapillary atrophy in the RE and in LE, total pallor and temporal peripapillary atrophy, physiological excavation AO. The OCT showed a decrease in the nerve fiber layer in the upper, nasal and lower quadrants in the RE and in all sectors of the LE. The checkerboard-evoked visual potentials (PVE-pattern) showed a decrease in all recorded responses and a slight increase in latencies when stimulating the LE.