A 6-month-old male infant (affection) and heterozygosity in his mother was treated in our clinic for presenting divergent strabismus with absence of fixation in the left eye.
Both the pregnancy and the birth had passed without complications. As a personal history, mention that the infant had suffered a traffic accident the previous month.
On examination, the anterior pole was normal in both eyes.
In the left eye fundus, an inferior retinal detachment was observed associated with a vitreous veil with retinal traction to the papilla.

No retinal alterations were observed in the fundus of the right eye.
On retinoscopy he presented a neutral point of +3.00 -2.00 at 10o in the right eye and +3.50 +0.50 at 7o in the left eye.
Given the history of the traffic accident, a traumatic origin was attributed to the retinal detachment in the left eye.
Periodic checks were carried out. Retinal detachment evolved towards complete resorption, with a demarcation line appearing in the temporal retina. The macula adapted, presenting an alteration at the level of the retinal pigment epithelium.

After months, vitreous flanges were observed in the inferior temporal arch in the right eye. This led to thinking about a possible peripheral retinoschisis as the origin of the retinal detachment in the left eye.
Both macular OCT and ERG were performed, but the results were not evaluable in both tests due to the patient's poor cooperation given his young age. For this reason, a DNA study was carried out from a peripheral blood sample. A mutation (Q154R) was observed in exon 5 of the XLRS gene responsible for X-linked retinoschisis. The mutation occurred in hemizygosity in the patient (affect) and in heterozygosity in his mother (carrier).
At the age of 6 years, visual acuity was 20/20 in the right eye and 20/400 in the left eye, despite prolonged treatment with hourly occlusions of the right eye.
The examination revealed inferior temporal vitreous condensation in the right eye and inferior temporal peripheral retinoschisis in the left eye, associated with residual fibrosis of the inferior temporal arch.

The absence of foveal schisis using OCT in both eyes was notable.