One year and five months old male, referred by his pediatrician for strabismus. He presents esotropia (15 degrees) and small hypertropia in the right eye (RE), the left eye (LE) is dominant. Visual acuity (VA) is low in RE (is bothered by occluding the LE) and acceptable in LE (fixes gaze and picks up small objects). The light reflection on the cornea makes us suspect eccentric fixation in both eyes.
The child had suffered febrile seizures. The family history highlights that his mother had chickenpox while pregnant (between 16 and 18 weeks), and that a maternal uncle suffers from Alport syndrome. The anterior pole is normal. In schoscopy the neutral point is +2 in both eyes.
Through indirect ophthalmoscopy, oval lesions were seen in both macules, predominantly in the temporal half, suggestive of old retinochoroiditis, with normal periphery. In the RE it is larger, highly pigmented and with whitish glial tissue in the center; The temporal arches are curved towards the pathological area, and there is temporal parapapillary atrophy. In the LE there is a well-defined chorioretinal atrophy, with pigmented edges, normal retinal vessels and some choroids on the sclera with clusters of pigment; scleral ectasia is seen under the retina. The child does not present nystagmus or other ocular or systemic lesions. The skull x-ray is normal.
If intrauterine ocular infection is suspected, serology is requested for TORCH (acronym for Toxoplasma, Rubella, Cytomegalovirus and Herpes), syphilis and lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus, for the child and the mother. Both are negative for toxoplasma (both IgG 0.14 IU/ml, by enzyme immunoassay, EIA). Cytomegalovirus, child negative, mother positive with low titers (Ig G 2.1 Index, by EIA). Herpes type I, negative child, positive mother with low titers (IgG 2 Index, by EIA). Herpes type II, negative child, positive mother with low titers (IgG 2.39 Index, by EIA). Varicella-zoster virus, child negative, mother positive with high titers (IgG 2.68 Index and IgM negative, by EIA). Syphilis, RPR mother and son negative. Rubella, both positive when vaccinated (child IgG 59.3 IU/ml, mother IgG 113.7 IU/ml, by EIA). Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus, both positive, but with low titers that are not significant (IgG 1/32, by indirect immunofluorescence).
All of this allows us to rule out an infectious etiology, since the child's antibodies are not elevated, and suggests that it is a bilateral atypical macular coloboma. As there are hereditary cases (1), the fundus of his parents and siblings is examined, they are all normal. It can also be associated with hypercalciuria and hypomagnesemia (2), but in this case the calcium/creatinine index and magnesemia are within normal limits.
Subsequently we have followed the evolution until three years of age, the VA in the RE is light perception and projection, and in the LE it is 0.2. In the visual evoked potentials, by stimulation with luminous glasses and checkerboard, there is a clear asymmetry, with detriment in OD.
Penalty with patches was not considered due to the large size of the RE coloboma. It would be interesting to do an ocular ultrasound, but it was decided to wait until the patient was older and cooperated when performing it.