We present the case of a 45-year-old man who presented with bilateral eye pain, intense photophobia and decreased visual acuity (VA). Fifteen days earlier he had been diagnosed with probably adenoviral keratoconjunctivitis, treated with tobramycin eye drops (Tobrex, Alcon Cusi, Barcelona) and cyclopentolate hydrochloride (Cicloplegic, Llorens, Barcelona). He reported itching, photophobia and redness for 3 months, concomitant with asthenia, cachexia and 16 kilograms (kg) weight loss.
His personal history includes chronic alcoholic pancreatitis, non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, smoking, and a cholecystostomy with percutaneous bypass performed 11 months earlier. The ophthalmological history included excision of pterygium in the RE associated with beta therapy 5 years previously and a subsequent sclerocorneal lamellar graft due to trauma.
On examination, he had a VA of counting fingers (cd) at 3 meters in the RE and light perception and projection in the LE. The RE shows intense vascular injection, microcystic epithelial edema, superior peripheral ulcerative keratitis (PUK), 4-cross tyndall and a posterior synechiae, with intraocular pressure (IOP) of 16 mmHg and non-relevant fundus of the eye (FO). The LE presents a very severe injection of the conjunctival, ciliary and episcleral vascularization, pannus 360º, pterygium, a central corneal ulcer with stromal necrosis, level of hyphema that occupies half of the anterior chamber (AC) and posterior synechiae 360º, with IOP of 26 mmHg and unexplorable FO. Corneal sensitivity is normal in both eyes (AO).
The patient was admitted to begin the study and begin treatment with oral prednisone 1 mg/kg/day (Dacortin 30 mg, Merck, Barcelona), oral doxycycline 100 mg/12 h (Vibracina 100, Pfizer, Madrid), atropine eye drops 1%/8 h. (Atropine 1%, Alcon Cusí), tobramycin and dexamethasone/4 h (Tobradex, Alcon Cusí) and carmellose sodium 0.5/h (Viscofresh 0.5%, Allergan, Madrid).
Seven days later the hyphema disappeared, and a level of hypopyon appeared in the LE, so vancomycin eye drops at a concentration of 50 mg/ml/h (Diatracin Injectable 500 mg, Lilly and Dista, Madrid), and gentamicin 14 mg were added. /ml/h (Gevramycin 40 mg injection, Schering-Plough, Madrid), with corneal cultures negative for bacteria, fungi, viruses and parasites. A diagnostic-therapeutic upper conjunctival excision was performed, which ruled out vasculitic lesions or the presence of herpes simplex virus (HSV 1 and 2) by immunohistochemistry, showing intense acanthosis and an absence of goblet cells.
Systemic examination ruled out any sign of rheumatic involvement, with serology of infectious diseases and markers of rheumatic diseases and vasculitis negative, except for elevated C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate. The analysis revealed macrocytic and hypochromic anemia, a pattern of severe lipoprotein malnutrition, hyperglycemia, and elevated liver enzymes. Malabsorption studies revealed mild malabsorption and a decrease in fat-soluble vitamins [vitamin A: 0.24 mg/ml (micrograms/milliliter) (N: 0.4-0.8)], and vitamin A transport proteins. vitamin A [retinol-binding protein (RBP) and prealbumin].
The chest x-ray, cranial and thoraco-abdominal computed axial tomography (CT) were normal. The orbital CT scan revealed mucosal thickening of the right maxillary sinus with a normal otorhinolaryngological examination. Ocular ultrasound rules out vitreoretinal involvement of the LE.
The diagnosis of protein-calorie malnutrition with vitamin A deficiency was therefore reached, and treatment was initiated with a high-protein and high-calorie diet without sugar, pancreatic enzymes and oral vitamins.
The evolution was favorable, with resolution of the OA symptoms at 2 months and a VA of 1 OD and cd at 1 m OI. The LE presents a central leukoma limited inferiorly by a lipid keratopathy and posterior synechiae, which continue to prevent visibility of the OF.