A 53-year-old Negroid woman with morbid obesity: body mass index (BMI) 41kg/m2, and clear volume asymmetry of the lower limbs, with an exuberant volume of the right leg in which the presence of anfractuosities in the cutaneous-adipose tissue of the dorsum of the right foot.

We proposed a diagnosis of secondary chronic lymphedema of probable infectious etiology due to filariasis, given that the patient had previously resided in Guinea Bissau where filariasis is endemic, and we classified it as stage IV according to the clinical staging system of Campisi-Michelini et al. . (6).
The patient was admitted for treatment by elevating the limb and optimizing her skin hygiene, and then underwent surgery, performing the Charles technique with excision of the affected area of ​​the dorsum of the foot in an extension of 16 x 11 cm and coverage with graft of Partial netted skin taken from the inner surface of the same leg. It is important to note that we preserve the skin of the interdigital spaces to prevent the subsequent appearance of scar bands.

Postoperatively, the patient presented lymphatic drainage in the operated area without loss of the network graft, with drainage occurring through the fenestrations. She remained hospitalized for a period of 15 days, with the limb elevated and with daily dressings until the lymphatic exudation ceased. During her admission, she completed a 15-day course of antibiotic therapy, a treatment that we prolonged prophylactically on an outpatient basis for 2 more weeks until healing was complete. At 2 weeks she began to use compression using an elastic stocking, for 24 hours for the first 3 months and then only during the day for her daily activities, as a prevention of recurrence.

The patient presented a reduction in foot volume as well as an improvement in her mobility and skin hygiene. We maintained follow-up in consultation every 3 months in the first year, and every 6 months in the second, until definitive discharge 2 years after surgery.