A 51-year-old woman came to the emergency room with a headache that had been going on for 2 months. The scan highlights a 38 x 21 mm lytic lesion involving the left temporal calvaria immediately above the mastoid. Her personal history highlights the thermocoagulation of a skin lesion on the same region in another hospital center, currently without apparent skin involvement. After performing a full-body bone extension study and computed tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen and pelvis, which were negative, we proceeded to surgically remove the lesion in collaboration with the Neurosurgery Service. The lesion was removed with en bloc circumferential craniectomy including the temporalis muscle and its fascia, with a macroscopic margin of 1 cm. The underlying dura mater had an apparently preserved appearance, without infiltration. A 5 cm acrylic plasty was molded for the bone defect and direct scalp closure was performed.

The excised mass was soft and whitish in consistency and eroded the external and internal table of the temporal bone.

The pathological study showed a neoplasia in multiple well-defined solid nests separated from each other by fibrous tissue. Inside these nests, an atypical epithelium with frequent mitosis was found arranged around central areas formed by keratic material. All of these characteristics represent a malignant tumor originating in the hair follicle and specifically a trichofollicular carcinoma.

As a consequence of the most probable origin of the tumor, the history of skin injury and the fact that the scalp was not removed in the first intervention, we decided to extend the surgery and perform revision of the bed and resection of the scalp island. The intervention was scheduled by the Plastic Surgery Service 2 months after the first operation, but the day before the scheduled date the patient was admitted to the Pulmonology Service for hemoptysis, with negative fiberoptic bronchoscopy and CT with pleural thickening, so evolutionary control was recommended. Given the time that had elapsed, a new control cranial CT was performed, which reported the presence of postsurgical changes without signs suggestive of local recurrence or lymph node dissemination.
Finally, 3 months after the first intervention, the patient underwent surgery again, performing a wide scalp resection and exposing the previous surgical bed. Intraoperatively we observed the presence of a new small lesion, 1 cm, located 1 cm from the posterior edge of the craniectomy and without contiguity with the previous one, with preserved external table but eroding internal table and with apparent dural infiltration. We removed the acrylic plasty, expanded the craniectomy, performed circumferential dural resection with margins, and repaired the meninge with Neuropatch® plasty. The final bone and skin defect, measuring 12 x 7 cm in diameter, was reconstructed by Plastic Surgery with a rectus abdominis muscle free flap based on the inferior epigastric artery (TRAM) and partial skin free skin graft over the muscle. The location of the tumor at the junction of the middle and posterior third of the skull base made it more complex to have recipient vessels for the flap. Finally, the anastomoses were made end-to-end to the superior thyroid artery, which was rotated posteriorly to reach the flap pedicle and the external jugular vein.
The anatomopathological study of the excised piece showed infiltration by a tumor with the same characteristics as the original one, that is, a trichofollicular carcinoma in the internal table, diploe and dura mater, with free edges, which curiously did not infiltrate the scalp, epidural tissue, or local ganglia.
A third surgical intervention was necessary because a new antero-superior parietal lesion was detected without continuity with the previous craniectomy in the control scanner in less than 1 month of evolution. We were able to access the upper edge of the previous craniectomy through the incision of the upper edge of the TRAM flap and its extension towards the scalp on the superior temporal line. We extended the craniectomy 4x5 cm in an antero-superior direction to include the new lesion and the underlying dura with free margins. Closure was performed with another Neuropatch® plasty and acrylic cranioplasty only on the new bone defect (the previous bone defect was completely covered by the TRAM flap).

Both diploe and dura were infiltrated by trichofollicular carcinoma, with negative resection margins.
The cranial and thoracic control scan 3 months after the last intervention showed no recurrence of local disease and detected the presence of 2 apical lung nodules that were removed by video-assisted thoracoscopy. The pathological report was pulmonary metastases with a histological image similar to that of previous biopsies. Given this, we assumed the lung diagnosis as metastasis of primary trichofollicular carcinoma of the scalp.
As adjuvant treatment, the patient received local radiotherapy focused on the surgical bed and the flap with very good adaptation and evolution: external radiotherapy with intensity modulation (IMRT) for 1 and a half months at a rate of 2 sessions per week, using photons of high energy generated by the linear accelerator (SYNERGY®) with a total dose of 12,600 cGy.
She was also administered adjuvant chemotherapy: 6 cycles with the CDDP-5FU regimen (cisplatin with fluorouracil) and another 4 cycles of carboplatin-taxol with a good response.
Two and a half years after the diagnosis of the primary tumor, and having completed this last cycle of chemotherapy, in the CT there are no signs of tumor or lung recurrence, or dissemination to the abdomen or pelvis.