3-year-old male patient, with no significant history, who began his illness 15 days before his hospital admission when he presented a tonic-clonic seizure with deviation of gaze and lateralized movements to the left lasting about 20 minutes. related to hyperthermia. Eight days after this first episode, he again presented seizures with the same characteristics, this time with hyperthermia, poor general condition, and sporadic non-productive cough. He begins treatment with Amoxicillin, Paracetamol, Diclofenac and Diphenylhydantoin.
He attended a scheduled appointment to undergo an electroencephalogram, but was referred to the emergency room due to a feverish peak of 40º C. Hyporexia, poor general condition, reddened labial mucosa, hyperemic conjunctivae, painful herpetic-type oral lesions, with abundant sialorrhea were also observed. Cervical adenomegaly was palpable on the left side measuring 1.5 cm, soft abdomen and intact skin. A probable diagnosis of Kawasaki Syndrome was made upon admission.
In the first 24 hours of post-admission evolution, he presented clinical deterioration with a toxic appearance, edema in the mouth and lips, purulent discharge from both conjunctivae, tongue with a whitish plaque, exanthematic rash installed in the cephalo-caudal direction, maculopapular, not pruritic, with a positive Nikolski sign. in face

48 hours after admission, confluent vesicles and sloughing of these appeared in the anterior and posterior thorax, cheeks and pinnae, bleeding lips, facial edema with the presence of a whitish layer on the tongue and pharynx with greenish retronasal discharge, transmitted snoring rales, dysthermia, acrocyanosis and respiratory difficulty characterized by intercostal and subcostal indrawing, nasal flaring and oximetry saturation of 85%, for which he was admitted to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit due to the possibility of laryngeal edema.

On the third and fourth days of hospitalization, a significant sphacelus of the epidermis was seen, mainly on the face, loss of eyelashes, sphacelus of mucosa of cheeks and dorso-lingual, anterior and posterior thorax, upper portion of abdomen, upper portion of both arms and penis, calculating 45% of body surface affected. Hydroelectrolyte requirements were increased using the Galveston formula and medical treatment was initiated with Clindamycin, Amikacin and Methylprednisolone. Diphehydantoin and NSAIDs were suspended due to the possible diagnosis of Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome versus Stevens Johnson syndrome.

The laboratory showed:
-BH Hgb: 12.4, Hto. 39.1%, VCM 80.2, HCM 25.5, CMHG 31.7, Leukocytes 19.6, Lymphocytes 29%, Eosinophils 3%, Segmented 66%, Bands 1%, Monocytes 1%, Platelets 188,000, ESR 6mm/h.
-EGO: Density 1,020, Ph 5.0, Yellow color, Leukocytosis 2-3/field, Trace ketones, Few crystals and Few epithelial cells. Negative remainder.
-Electrolytes: Na 139, K 4.2, Cl 101.
-Blood chemistry: Total bilirubin 15, unconjugated bilirubin 29, total protein 7.1, albumin 4.0, globulins 3.2, alkaline phosphatase 255, GGT 22, ALT 49, AST 65, blood glucose 148 and creatinine 0.55.
Surgical lavage and skin biopsy were performed in the right inguinal region, as well as placement of a 3-way central catheter in the left groin to initiate total parenteral nutrition. The bloody areas extended to 60% of the SC as well as the oral and perianal mucosa, with easy bleeding, which were covered with Lassar paste and Polymyxin. A fibrous cream due to corneal sloughing was seen on both corneas, which was easily extracted and local medication based on eye drops with Moxifloxacin, Ciprofloxacin ointment and ocular lubricant was placed.

The entire systemic antibiotic regimen was changed to Ceftriaxone, Vancomycin and Fluconazole, in addition to analgesia with Midazolam, Nalbuphine, Diazapam, Polymyxin on the lips and Gammaglobulin (total dose of 12.8 gr.).
The skin biopsy confirmed the structural alterations as a severe form of Erythema multiforme of the Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis type probably secondary to drugs (Anticonvulsants). The blood culture and cultures of the pharynx and ocular secretions were negative.
New serial surgical lavages were performed under sedation and the wounds were covered with hydrocolloid dressings. There was no improvement in the injuries until the third week. Both eyelids showed synechiae that were released on multiple occasions, presenting corneal reepithelialization. His evolution was towards improvement, transferring from the Intensive Care Unit to the hospital ward.
Once the abdomen had healed, a gastrostomy was performed given the persistence of the intraoral lesions. The central catheter and Foley catheter were removed due to persistent fever. Catheter tip cultures determined Staphylococcus Aureus infection on day 30 of the hospital stay. He was discharged 36 days after admission with good general condition and continued medical treatment with psychological support in outpatient clinics.
He currently has sequelae due to skin dyschromia, photophobia, he is beginning to walk with help, as well as tolerance to oral food. He remains under ophthalmology monitoring.