A 75-year-old man with a history of high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes mellitus, transient ischemic attack, autoimmune hypothyroidism, and mild cognitive impairment. He suffered a flame contact burn due to inflammation of his clothing when fanning a flame with diesel fuel, as a result of which he had deep dermal and subdermal lesions on both lower extremities, with a total body surface area burned of 20%. The burns were deep dermal on the posterior surface of both thighs and circumferential on both legs, with a plaque of subdermal involvement on the anterior surface of the left leg, as well as superficial dermal burns on the lateral thighs and face.
Resuscitation in the first hours after the accident was carried out in a hospital in another region, from which he was referred to the Intensive Care Unit of our hospital to continue treating the injuries.
On the day of hospital admission, we performed emergency escharotomies in both legs and completed the initial resuscitation. During the first 3 weeks of admission we performed 4 sessions of serial debridement of the burned areas and coverage with mesh partial skin autograft of the anterior surface of the thighs in the defects caused by the excision of the deeper burns, posterior legs and thighs, and with dermal substitutes (Biobrane®) in the debrided areas of superficial burns, on the sides of the thighs and in patchy areas of the legs. One week after surgery we observed the loss of the graft from the anterior surface of the left leg.

In a new surgical session we performed debridement of the left pretibial area, with persistence under the burn graft that had not been eliminated during the previous surgeries. After adequate removal of this eschar, we observed a 20 cm long pretibial defect, with exposure of the tibia. We gouged the entire exposed periosteum and began vacuum therapy on the resulting defect. We apply vacuum therapy using a VAC® device (KCI Clinic Spain SL), in continuous mode, at 125 mmHg. The cures were carried out every 72 hours with chlorhexidine soap. No new debridement processes were necessary in the operating room. After 45 days of vacuum therapy, we confirmed the complete coverage of the bone by granulation tissue and performed definitive treatment with partial skin autografts taken from the buttocks, after which we achieved complete closure of the wounds.

During the period of application of the therapy, the microbiological cultures of the underlying granulation tissue were positive for multidrug-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which the patient had previously also presented in urine. We instituted systemic treatment with Imipenem and Cilastatin, and performed partial debridement of the most superficial and hypertrophic granulation tissue during healing changes in the room. Once the vacuum therapy was completed and the defect was grafted, the patient no longer showed signs of infection of the grafts. After 100 days of admission, he was discharged from the hospital, with difficulty ambulating and with rehabilitation treatment on an outpatient basis.