A 31-year-old male with a notable history of post-traumatic splenectomy 14 years previously and overweight. He presented sepsis due to pneumococcus that caused multi-organ failure (renal, respiratory, hematological and hemodynamic) and admission to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). He remained intubated for 11 days and was later transferred to the Internal Medicine ward. Due to poor perfusion secondary to sepsis, necrotic lesions appeared in the upper and mainly distal lower extremities. Initially evaluated by Vascular Surgery, treatment with prostaglandins was indicated for 21 days. After improvement in his general condition and disappearance of life-threatening risk and after 7 weeks admitted to Internal Medicine, he was transferred to Plastic Surgery for treatment of residual necrotic lesions.
Upon admission to our Service he had multiple small lesions on his forearms, hands and thighs that epithelialized adequately with topical treatment. The most relevant complication was left plantar necrosis with a large eschar in the plantar dumb area that was debrided in the hospitalization room, left plantar anesthesia, dry necrosis of the 3rd, 4th and 5th toes of the right foot and a 10 x 5 cm right pretibial ulcer.

We perform surgical intervention for left plantar and right pretibial debridement and daily debridements in the room to reduce most of the sloughs and bedsores. After 20 days of daily debridements in the patient's room, without local anesthesia (there was no pain due to the plantar anesthesia and because it was necrotic tissue), V.A.C.® therapy was started on the sole of the left foot to promote granulation, avoid superinfection and allow for subsequent coverage of the defect. Polyurethane sponges (VAC GranuFoam®) were applied with continuous negative pressure of 125 mmHg for the first 48 hours and then continued with intermittent negative pressure (5 minutes with aspiration and 2 without aspiration). The first week, sponges with silver (VAC GranuFoam Silver®) were used to improve the antibacterial effect given the persistence of slough. The VAC® container collected abundant exudate during the treatment. We use the VAC ATS® Therapy System. The complete treatment lasted 20 days and sponge changes were performed 3 times a week.

The patient was able to continue performing physical therapy exercises during the treatment, comfortably carrying his VAC® system in his hand, when he attended the sessions in a wheelchair.
The evolution was very favorable, with the disappearance of residual slough, formation of bright red granulation tissue, without the appearance of superinfection and obtaining an adequate bed to receive a skin graft.

One week after withdrawing VAC® therapy, the patient underwent surgery to cover the left plantar defect with a partial thickness skin graft taken from the thigh on the same side, amputation of the 3rd, 4th and 5th toes of the right foot and skin graft over the defect. right pretibial residual. The grafts took adequately and the wounds healed well.

The patient was discharged after 4 and a half months of hospitalization and 2 weeks after the skin graft coverage intervention. Upon discharge he was ambulating with the help of crutches. Six weeks after discharge, he was ambulating independently with the help of a special insole placed by the podiatrist, although he required regular care by the podiatrist due to the plantar anesthesia that requires strict monitoring of the skin in this area.