A 41-year-old male patient was referred to our clinic due to a recurrent tumor lesion on the left side of the base of the neck, 10 cm in diameter, with an ulcerated, bleeding central area, and adhered to deep planes. He reported a 30-year evolution and a diagnosis of solitary neurofibroma, for which he was treated on 3 occasions with partial resections and coverage with an acromial flap and graft. He developed a retractile keloid scar in the left lateral area of ​​the neck and was treated with 15 sessions of radiotherapy, which caused a significant limitation in lateral movements of the cervical area.

We proceeded to perform an imaging study of the lesion using magnetic resonance imaging with coronal and sagittal axial sections in Fast Spin Echo sequence, enhanced in T1, T2, GRE and T1 with gadolinium, finding a solid mass of neoplastic type, with well-defined borders of 10.4 x5.8x12.4 cm in its longitudinal, anteroposterior and transverse axes respectively, which occupied the left anterior region of the base of the neck, superior to the sternoclavicular joint, originating in the superior and medial area of ​​the left pectoral muscle and at the level of insertion of the sternocleidomastoid muscle in the clavicular area. No involvement of neck vascular structures or intrathoracic extension was observed. After the administration of gadolinium, moderate enhancement of the tumor occurred.
The patient underwent surgery by the Oncology Service in conjunction with the Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Service, performing preoperative marking for complete resection of the neurofibroma and its immediate reconstruction.

The Oncology team carried out the en bloc resection of the neurofibroma, generating a soft tissue defect measuring 20x10 cm in diameter with exposure of the pectoral muscle, left parasternal area, medial area of ​​the first costal arch and clavicle.

The Plastic Surgery team was in charge of restoring the defect through subfascial dissection, with 2.5 x magnification loupes, of an anterolateral left thigh free flap based on 2 perforating vessels of the descending branch of the circumflex lateral femoral artery, with dimensions of 24x11 cm, and 12 cm long pedicle, performing end-to-end anastomosis with 9-0 nylon to superior thyroid vessels contralateral to the lesion and transposition of the previously performed acromial flap to its native location. The donor area of ​​the anterolateral thigh flap was closed by first intention without complications.
The coordination of work in 2 teams by Oncology and Plastic Surgery made it possible for the total operating time to be 5 hours, with the patient not requiring transfusions or stay in the Intensive Care Unit. Adequate planning, by locating 2 perforating vessels in the area of ​​the left thigh with a manual 8 MhZ acoustic Doppler, guaranteed being able to obtain a flap with the necessary dimensions for coverage.
The histopathological report of the resection specimen confirmed the diagnosis of neurofibroma, with dimensions of 16x10.5x6.5 cm, showing mesenchymal cells, fibroblasts, Schwann cells, perineural tissue and mast cells, and with deep surgical margins free of lesion.

The patient had a 6-day hospital stay, with intravenous antibiotic therapy with cefazolin 1 g every 8 hours, acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg orally once a day, and anti-inflammatory/analgesic treatment with ketoprofen 25 mg every 8 hours. We do not immobilize the recipient or donor area, and only leave open Penrose drainage in the recipient area for 48 hours.
We monitor the flap by clinically assessing capillary refill, color and local temperature every hour in the first 24 hours, and subsequently every 2 hours for a further 48 hours. We also used 8MhZ manual Doppler to assess the patentity and patency of the venous and arterial anastomosis. During the hospital stay, there were no signs of venous congestion or arterial insufficiency, with adequate coverage of the defect created by the resection.
We began neck physiotherapy 6 weeks after the intervention, based on flexion-extension and lateral movements of the neck.
We followed up the patient in the outpatient clinic every 3 weeks for a period of 18 months, during which the neck area improved in contour and mobility, with a better aesthetic-functional result and without secondary surgical treatments being necessary.