A 73-year-old man on his first visit to our Service, with a history of diabetes mellitus, ischemic heart disease, smoking habit until 1993, without known allergies to medications. In July 2001, after several months of rectal discomfort, a routine blood test revealed a PSA level of 16.68 ng/ml. Referred from Primary Care to Urology, he is diagnosed by biopsy of Prostate Adenocarcinoma in the right lobe, Gleason 3 + 3 (T1cNxMx, Stage II).
After establishing complete androgen blockade (CAB) with Bicalutamide and Leuprorelin, he was referred to our Service, where a thoraco-abdominal CT scan was requested to complete the staging. Pending the result of said test due to the delay in its performance and taking into account the patient's age and the stage of the disease, RT treatment is started. A dose of 70 Gy is programmed on the prostate and seminal vesicles, using 18 MV photons, a 4-field box technique and fractionation of 2 Gy/day, 5 days per week.
Before the end of the treatment, the CT was received (10/11/01), which revealed a 3 cm solid mediastinal mass, left paraesophageal, superior to the aortic arch, and it was not possible to differentiate whether it was a lymph node mass or a primitive neoplasm. Additionally, a solid right renal mass, approximately 7 cm in diameter, with central necrosis, suggestive of hypernephroma, was visualized. No vascular alterations, retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy or significant alterations in the pelvis were observed.

After the result of the CT, it was decided to continue irradiation on the prostate, ending the treatment on 11/26/01. Meanwhile, and given that the renal mass did not raise diagnostic doubts, the choice was made to approach the thoracic lesion.
On 11/15/01 a mediastinoscopy was performed with biopsies, with histological results of clear cell carcinoma, compatible with metastasis of Renal Carcinoma.
According to Medical Oncology and Urology, on 12/21/01 the Nephrectomy (NF) was performed, with a definitive histological result of grade II-III renal cell carcinoma, which invades perirenal adipose tissue (T3aNxM1, Stage IV).
Given the possibility of surgery on the mediastinal metastasis, a new CT was performed (01/30/02), which confirmed the presence of the lung mass, with an approximate size of 5 x 3 x 4 cm that infiltrates the posterior mediastinal region. , without cleavage plane with supra-aortic vascular structures or with the aortic arch, being very close to the upper third of the esophagus. At the abdominal level, the right NF is visualized without signs of recurrence or tumor remnant.

On 02/27/02 an exploratory thoracotomy was performed, with the discovery of a 5 cm mediastinal tumor that invaded the lung parenchyma and upper surface of the aortic arch at the level of an atherosclerosis plaque that prevented lateral clamping, so it was considered unresectable. A biopsy is taken and the diagnosis is confirmed.
The possibility of radiotherapy treatment on the mediastinal lesion is raised, followed or not by immunotherapy, but the patient does not accept this possibility and considering his good general condition, an expectant attitude is adopted.
The patient continues with BAC and symptomatic treatment. In June 2002 he received treatment with Megestrol Acetate for "hot flashes" secondary to the BAC, which was interrupted a month later when the BAC was discontinued. In September 2002, a bone scan was performed, which showed no pathological deposits of the tracer, as well as a determination of the PSA (0.10 ng/ml) and a new CT. In said CT (09/12/02), a mass was seen in the posterior mediastinum, above the aortic arch, measuring 6 x 4 x 4 cm. infiltrating the left subclavian artery, the aorta and the left lung, as well as nodular images in the lingula and right lower lobe adjacent to the spine, suggestive of pulmonary metastases. In the abdomen, multiple nodular images were seen in the right renal fossa suggestive of recurrence, with probable infiltration of the ipsilateral psoas muscle.

Therefore, and in conclusion after the last CT (9 months after NF) the patient presents a clear progression of his disease, with new metastases in addition to local recurrence.
In October 2002 he was admitted for clinical suspicion of pulmonary thromboembolism, without scintigraphic confirmation. After discharge he was seen on an outpatient basis on several occasions, showing a progressive improvement in his general condition.

In September 2003, 21 months after NF and the patient being asymptomatic, a thoracic and abdominal CT was performed (09/16/03), which only showed several axillary lymphadenopathy smaller than 1 cm and the right NF, with no evidence of other lesions. -Complete radiological response-.

Currently (36 months after NF) two subsequent CT scans show the persistence of this response and the patient remains asymptomatic. The prostate tumor continues to have a complete response, with a PSA nadir of 0.10 ng/ml and no alterations in the bone scan.