A 37-year-old single male, a field worker, who was sent to our Service from another hospital because he did not have the necessary experience to treat the type of injury he suffered; At that time he presented a penoscrotal lesion for which 15 days earlier he had been urgently admitted to the Urology Service of the hospital of origin with a suspected diagnosis of infected sarcoma or lymphogranuloma venereum. He had not previously been seen or treated at any other medical center. During the 10 days that he was admitted to Urology, he was initially treated with Metronidazole and Ceftazidime, and once the antibiogram was performed, with Amikacin, Trimethopine / Sulfamethoxazole and Cefotaxime. The biopsy diagnosis was Buscke-Lowenstein verrucous carcinoma.
When we received him, he had an exophytic tumor lesion on his penis about 15 cm in diameter. The patient reports that it had started 6 months earlier in the form of a small ulceration in the balanopreputial groove that progressively grew in a cauliflower shape and ended up infiltrating the neighboring tissues. On the penis it affected the skin, dartos, Buck's fascia and albuginea, invaded the interior of the corpora cavernosa, destroyed the urethra and its spongiosa but spared the glans, and also infiltrated the pubic tissues, the scrotum and its contents.
The boundaries between affected tissues and healthy tissues were not well defined; In the affected tissues we found a deformed, soft, fungal, ulcerated mass, purplish in color, bad smelling and bleeding in some areas; The peripheral tissues were edematous and there were palpable bilateral iliac and inguinal lymphadenopathy. The patient was urinating through a fistulous orifice that was not clearly visible, located between the mass and the remains of the destroyed urethra.
The clinical analyzes performed were normal; serological tests for brucellosis, lues and HIV were negative; The bacteriological culture was positive for Bacteroides caccae, Proteus mirabilis and Staphylococcus aureus. The pathological study of the biopsy indicated that it was a giant Buschke-Lowenstein condyloma acuminatum.
Craniocaudal axial cuts were made using Computerized Axial Tomography (CT) from the upper edge of the pubic symphysis to the root of the penis. In the images we found bilateral lymphadenopathy in the internal and external iliac chains and in the inguinal chains; some of these lymphadenopathy exceeded one centimeter in diameter. The solid mass infiltrated the penis, the scrotum and also seemed to infiltrate the fascia of the left adductor muscle, but no infiltration of the fat of the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the inner wall of the thighs or of the fat of the perineum was observed; Nor were any bone lesions seen in the ischio-ileo-pubic branches suggestive of metastatic infiltration.

Given the characteristics of the tumor, the involvement of the lymph node chains and the possibility of malignancy, it was decided to perform a radical surgical treatment that was carried out 3 days after admission to Plastic Surgery.
Under general anesthesia, with the patient in a supine position and the lower extremities separated, we made a perilesional incision through the pubis, inguinal folds and perineum, removing the tumor lesion en bloc; We then perform lymphadenectomy of the affected chains, thus completing the emasculinization of the patient. The incisions of the lymphadenectomies were closed in planes and the perineal-inguinal-pubic area was covered with a skin graft taken from the left thigh.

The intraoperative study of a 3 x 2 cm irregular biopsy piece reported the existence of a nodular formation with the appearance of a lymph node, suspicious of carcinoma metastasis due to the existence of inconclusive atypical cells.
The anatomopathological study of the excised piece described: an irregular piece with a warty appearance, which on one side shows the penile glans, and which measures 18 x 15 x 12 cm in largest dimensions. The tumor occupies most of the piece, circumferentially encompasses the penis and affects the skin of the pubis, scrotum and perineum. When cut, the tumor is friable, with vegetative growth on the surface and papillomatous growth in depth, which also deeply affects the glans and perineal tissues; The testicles are encompassed by fibrosis and tumor mass, although not infiltrated. The nodes of the lymphatic chains sent for analysis are reactive, but are free of tumor metastases.
After the surgical intervention, the patient was admitted to the Resuscitation Unit for 2 hours and subsequently to the hospital ward for 25 days. A second intervention was necessary due to partial necrosis of a small area of ​​the wound of the left lymphadenectomy incision and due to the loss of approximately 25% of the skin graft used for perineal-inguinal-pubic closure.
During hospital admission, standard postoperative medical treatment was administered and blood transfusion was not necessary. The patient remained catheterized since the intervention and was discharged from the hospital with the catheter that he kept at his home for another month.
As a result of the intervention, a small stump with a hole was left in the perineal region, into which the urethra empties and through which urination takes place. Although the different types of surgical interventions for penile reconstruction have been explained to the patient (5), with their advantages and disadvantages, he has always refused to undergo reconstructive surgery.


As a consequence of emasculinization, he developed hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, which is why he has been treated since the intervention (12 years to the present) with testosterone.
On the other hand, since it is a benign tumor, no type of postoperative medical treatment has been performed, nor radio or chemotherapy as they are not indicated.
