43-year-old male, active smoker of about 15 cigarettes a day. He went to the emergency room due to continuous epigastric pain of sudden onset accompanied by nausea and dizziness. Normal intestinal habit. He reported similar episodes of lower intensity that were related to eating and that subsided with fasting. Moderate asthenia and anorexia, with weight loss of about 15 kg in the last three months. On examination he was afebrile, BP 80/40, skin-mucosal pallor and the abdomen was soft, depressible, without defense or signs of peritoneal irritation, although painful on palpation in the epigastrium with slightly increased peristalsis. In the analysis he highlighted a Ht° of 30% with a Hb of 11.1 g/dl, the rest being normal. The abdominal x-ray revealed dilation of the jejunal loops with air-fluid levels. Abdominal ultrasound revealed the presence of a "pseudokidney or sandwich" image in the sagittal section plane and a "bullseye, bull's eye or donuts" image in the axial section. The inner layer was hyperechoic and the outer layer hypoechoic, suspicious of intestinal intussusception. Surgical intervention was decided and after anesthetic induction, a smooth and mobile abdominal mass located in the mesogastrium was palpated. A supraumbilical laparotomy was performed, revealing an intussuspection of a jejunal loop that was impossible to reduce, so a segmental resection of 30 cm of jejunum was performed containing a 4 x 4 x 2.5 cm tumor that was reported as anaplastic carcinoma. , with a rhabdoid phenotype that invaded the entire wall and infiltrated the subserosa layer. The immunohistochemical study showed high positivity for cytokeratins AE-1/AE-3, cytokeratin 7, cytokeratins 5/6/8/18 and vimentin. Cytokeratin 20, and the markers CD-30, CD-31, actin, desmin, CD-117, MELAN-A/M arp-1 and TTF-1 were negative, which indicated a pulmonary origin.

Chest CT confirmed the presence of a right hilar mass of about 4 cm, polylobulated and with spiculated contours, which encompassed the superior lobar bronchus although without significantly stenosis. A bronchoscopy was performed that revealed a thickening of the carina in its separation from the right upper lobar bronchus, with an endobronchial tumor that prevented the passage of the bronchoscope to the posterior segment. The biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of an undifferentiated carcinoma with the same immunohistochemical pattern as the intestinal mass.

The postoperative course was uneventful, and she was discharged in good clinical condition. He was subsequently treated with carboplatin AUC 5 day 1, and gemcitabine 1250 mg/m2/day days 1 and 8, every 21 days, with partial response after the fourth cycle of chemotherapy. Six months after diagnosis, he was admitted to hospital due to progressive cognitive deterioration secondary to multiple right frontoparietal brain metastases, and died fifteen days later.