A 54-year-old woman, with no relevant medical history, was referred to the Plastic Surgery clinic for a 2-month history that began with pain and paresthesia in the right leg. In recent weeks she had worsened, presenting foot drop and difficulty walking. The patient's symptoms were suggestive of neuropathy of the right sciatic nerve.
During the physical examination, we observed an increase in size on the posterior aspect of the right thigh and we palpated a deep, large tumor, with a soft consistency and painful to the touch.
The patient's clinical symptoms and physical examination suggested neuropathy of the sciatic nerve, probably due to extrinsic compression by the tumor.
We carry out the following complementary studies to make the diagnosis:
• Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): in the depth of the posterior compartment of the distal half of the right thigh, a mass with a maximum diameter of 14 x 9 x 5 cm (craniocaudal x transverse x anteroposterior) is visualized, mostly with a tissue-like signal. fatty, although presenting some septa and micronodular images with intermediate signal intensity in T1 and high signal intensity in STIR and T2-SPIR. This mass posteriorly displaces the sciatic nerve, findings that, although they could be related to a lipoma, also suggest the need to rule out a low-grade liposarcoma.

• Electromyography (EMG): compatible with compression of the sciatic nerve at the distal third of the right thigh.
Given the patient's clinical symptoms and the finding of a tumor in the MRI, it was decided to perform surgical treatment of the tumor.
We carry out surgical intervention under spinal anesthesia, performing resection of the tumor and releasing the sciatic nerve at the level of the tumor. The patient did not present any post-surgical complications.

The pathological study of the surgical specimen macroscopically reveals a large tumor with a lipomatous appearance, yellow, rounded, well delimited, measuring 12 x 10 x 4 cm and weighing 266.7 g. weight, which does not present hemorrhagic or necrotic areas when cut.

Microscopically, it is mature adipose tissue, separated into lobes by fine fibrous tracts and numerous small vessels in the periphery. Adipose cells do not show atypia or mitosis figures.
The patient's evolution was satisfactory, presenting a gradual decrease in pain and paresthesia and a gradual recovery of muscle strength to normal. After a 15-month postoperative follow-up, the patient is asymptomatic, with no paresthesias, no pain, no alteration in gait, and no evidence of recurrence.