A 26-year-old woman with no family history of breast cancer and a personal history of fibroadenoma resection in the right breast 4 months before coming to our Service. With this single history, a bilateral subcutaneous mastectomy was proposed as a "preventive treatment" for possible cancer. The patient had not been sufficiently informed about the repercussions of this procedure. She did not undergo complementary ultrasound or mammography studies, nor genetic studies for BRCA 1 or 2.
Two months after the removal of the fibroadenoma, a bilateral subcutaneous mastectomy was performed in a private hospital, by a medical oncologist in collaboration with a plastic surgeon. In the same intervention, round, textured, 400 cc saline breast implants were placed subcutaneously. When the stitches were removed, she presented wound dehiscence in both breasts, and several secondary closures were performed without results. She also suffered from erythema, increased temperature in both breasts, and whitish material coming out of the wounds. In that situation she comes to our Service; It had been 2 months since the mastectomy.
The patient reported that she had not requested "such large" implants, since her breast volume after her intervention was almost a cup larger than the one she had previously.

Oral antibiotic treatment was performed for 48 hours and on the third day, surgical washing and removal of the implants with regularization of the edge of the wounds, suturing and placement of closed-circuit drains that were maintained for 3 days. Three months later, round, textured, 300 cc breast expanders with integrated valves were placed in the retromuscular plane. A final expansion of 320 cc was achieved and maintained for 18 months; Although the expanders were scheduled to be replaced with prostheses after 6 months, the patient refused new surgeries. At this time, she began to experience stabbing pain in both breasts, so she finally agreed to the removal of the expanders and the placement of 295 cc, round, textured silicone gel implants, through a periareolar approach; Release of the lower mammary poles, reduction in the size of the nipple-areola complex, and bilateral radial capsulotomy were also performed at this time.

In the postoperative period, antibiotic and anti-inflammatory treatment was administered; One month after surgery, manual massage and ultrasound application were started and continued during the 2nd and 3rd month, followed by Endermology during the 4th month.
Since the patient reported persistent stabbing pain, she was added to treatment with Colchicine for 5 months at a dose of 1 mg/day, which was lowered to 0.5 mg/day due to intestinal intolerance. The following 4 months, she was treated with Thalidomide at a dose of 50 mg/day.
Eighteen months after the placement of the implants, the patient continued to report painful discomfort; however, clinically the breasts were soft and in the ultrasound study there were no data suggestive of prosthetic rupture or the presence of capsular contracture.

At 3 years, the patient presented frank capsular contracture and significant pain, but she did not accept a new surgical treatment due to a change of residence to the interior of the country. A year later, she returned requesting surgical treatment, at which time we proceeded to remove the implants and perform breast reconstruction with bilateral pedicled TRAM. She had been offered microsurgical treatment to reduce abdominal wall morbidity by preserving a greater amount of rectus abdominis muscle, but the patient rejected it. In the reconstruction performed, no implants were used and it was necessary to place a Marlex® mesh to cover the defect in the anterior abdominal wall once the two pedicled flaps had been raised.

We present images of the postoperative outcome 2.5 years after reconstruction, 8 years after the initial mastectomy.