We describe the technique used in the case of a 23-year-old patient who came to the clinic due to primary amenorrhea. Her phenotype was female, with normal external genitalia and internal genitalia with no vagina. The abdomino-pelvic ultrasound reported an aplastic uterus and bilateral renal microlithiasis; excretory urography was normal; Abdominal CT was also normal and pelvic CT showed the existence of a hypoplastic uterus. The x-ray of the left hand showed an approximate bone age of 17 years. Simple radiology of the dorso-lumbar spine showed right lumbar scoliosis and asymmetry of the iliac crests. The colon study by opaque enema was normal and no internal genitalia were detected in the rectal examination. Complementary studies: hormonal profile with FSH, LH, estradiol, progesterone, testosterone, prolactin, were normal.
The patient was studied arduously and sent for medical evaluation to the Gynecology, Endocrinology and Psychology Services, until the final diagnosis of Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser Syndrome was completed and she was referred to Plastic Surgery for vaginal reconstruction.

The McIndoe technique was performed, with the modification described below: taking and applying partial thickness skin grafts from the gluteal regions, which were manually cross-linked and fixed to a layer of hemostatic gel sponges in order to guarantee the intimate contact of the grafts with the newly formed vaginal walls. In total, 2 rectangular sheets of 8 x 6 cm of Gelfoam® hemostatic gel sponge were taken, which were sutured together with resorbable threads of the 3-0 monocryl type and placed on the silicone former to adopt its shape simulating a lining. The grafts were fixed to the former previously covered with the Gelfoam® sponges, also using resorbable sutures. We carried out the creation of the new vaginal tunnel by blunt dissection according to the technique described by the original author, with a dimension of 12 cm deep and approximately 6 cm in diameter, without intraoperative eventualities and with placement of the aforementioned device, fixed to vaginal neowalls with non-absorbable 3-0 nylon suture. Finally, we apply external compression dressing with compresses and a layer of transparent adhesive and a girdle-type jockstrap.

The initial cure was discovered 10 days after surgery, finding 100% integration of the grafts. We replaced the shaper to keep it there for 4 more weeks of continuous use and then 3 weeks of overnight use of the shaper were indicated. Three months after surgery, she was instructed to begin sexual relations, which she had already agreed to schedule in order to obtain the best possible results from the technique, avoiding vaginal stenosis. One year after the intervention, the patient has an active sexual life with a satisfactory postoperative period.