This is a 7-year-old girl, with no relevant pathological or neonatal history, who presents for consultation with a clinical picture of 8 months of evolution consisting of a nodular upper right gingival lesion of approximately 3 x 3 cm in diameter, and that he reported slow growth for 8 months that accelerated in the 2 months prior to the consultation.
A computed tomography (CT) scan was requested, which showed a right maxillary tumor with infiltration into the antrum and nasal cavity measuring 3 x 3 cm in diameter. Given this diagnosis, the Pediatric Surgery Service indicated marginal resection of the maxillary tumor using a sublabial approach and the histopathological report of the resection specimen reported a 3 cm maxillary chondrosarcoma with grade II differentiation.
The patient was subsequently sent for complementary treatment with adjuvant radiotherapy, to which she did not attend.
A year later she was re-admitted to the hospital presenting with a 2-month-old recurrence of the tumor. The tumor currently shows accelerated growth, measuring 9 x 6 cm in diameter on the CT scan and occupies the entire right jaw and partially the left jaw. At that time, chemotherapy treatment for tumor cytoreduction was indicated and the patient received 9 cycles with Doxurubicin 30 mg per m2 of body surface; Vincristine 1.5 mg per m2; Mesna 300 mg per m2 and Cyclofosfamide 300 mg per m2, for 5 months, without achieving the desired effect. Given this, an evaluation was requested by the Plastic Surgery, Oncological Surgery and Head and Neck Surgery Services, who decided to subject the patient to a new surgical intervention in which, after tracheostomy, we performed subtotal bilateral maxillectomy with palatectomy, including the tumor in its entirety and preserving the soft palate. The resection piece was 10 x 8 cm, grayish, firm, with reddish, hemorrhagic mucosa and with 30% areas of necrosis. The histopathological study performed with light microphotography and hematoxylin/eosin staining confirmed the diagnosis of grade II chondrosarcoma, cellular pleomorphism with 2 mitotic figures per field and surgical margins free of tumor and without vascular permeation.

In the same surgical procedure we carry out partial and temporary maxillary reconstruction with titanium miniplates and alloplastic prosthesis.

After 8 months of follow-up after radical surgery, the patient is in good general condition, with an adequate scar process, with no evidence of local or distant tumor activity evidenced by both clinical symptoms and CT.