A 35-year-old patient with skin phototype I according to the Fitzpatrick classification who attended the Plastic Surgery Service of our hospital with a clinical history of fibrocystic mastopathy, intracanalicular papillomatosis and cancerophobia due to a family history of breast neoplasia. The mammogram showed well-distributed micronodular-appearing tissue that was classified as a BIRADS 3 mammographic pattern. However, she was admitted for prophylactic breast cancer surgery. At the time of the intervention, she did not have palpable axillary lymphadenopathy.

We performed skin-conserving bilateral mastectomy, with intraoperative discovery of a black left axillary adenopathy, close to the subcutaneous tissue. Given the possibility of intraoperative discovery of a melanoma metastasis, we decided to send the sample for histopathological study on a deferred basis. We did not find other clinical signs suggestive of tumor pathology, so we completed the surgery with the bilateral placement of breast prostheses.

The exhaustive examination of the patient during postoperative admission did not reveal skin lesions compatible with melanoma, but it did reveal the presence of a 10-year-old tattoo in the left pectoral region. The patient was discharged from the hospital pending the results of the Pathological Anatomy study.

The delayed histological study of the surgical specimen described the adenopathy as a fragment with a bilobed appearance and a violet color, measuring 1.6 x 1.3 x 0.5 cm, with a violet tint. Under the microscope he described reactive lymphoid hyperplasia. The structure of the ganglion was preserved, without the presence of melanocytic cells and with deposits of a dark granular artificial pigment.

Once again in the consultation, the clinical examination together with the histological study of the lesion made it possible to attribute the cause of the clinical changes of the adenopathy to the patient's tattoo, with the consequent result of a benign prognosis and without the need for treatment or follow-up. later.