A 25-year-old man who suffered a stingray bite while fishing on the inner surface of his right ankle, with intense and burning pain, was initially treated in a local hospital with treatment and administration of systemic antibiotics; As he did not present an adequate clinical response, he was referred to our health institution.
Upon hospital admission, the patient had a very painful, deep lesion at the level of the posterior region of the internal malleolus of the right foot, with necrosis of the overlying skin and abundant discharge of purulent and fetid material.
We diagnosed soft tissue infection and he was hospitalized for surgical debridement and treatment with antibiotics (Clindamycin 600 mg every 8 hours and Amikacin 1 g daily). X-rays of the right ankle were taken in which we observed soft tissue edema, with no evidence of radio-opaque fragments that could correspond to remains of the venomous stinger.
In the operating room, drainage of the collection of purulent material and debridement of the necrotic tissue is performed, creating a 7 x 5 cm tissue defect on the medial malleolus of the right ankle, with exposure of the Achilles tendon and the posterior edge of the tibia; soft tissue culture is also performed.

Laboratory tests report: leukocytes of 7200/ul, with neutrophils of 60%, hemoglobin 10.7g/dl, hematocrit 31.8%, creatinine 0.9 mg/dL, C-reactive protein 3.13mg/dL and speed of erythrocyte sedimentation 81 mm.
We performed two additional debridements due to persistent secretion and residual necrotic tissue on the third and fifth days of hospitalization. The culture result detected the presence of Proteus vulgaris, sensitive to Amikacin.
Towards day 9, we decided to cover the remaining defect with a reverse flow internal saphenous fasciocutaneous flap. We debride the edges of the defect, leaving a loss of final substance of 8x3 cm; For coverage, we design a skin island with the same dimensions and then primarily close the donor area of ​​the flap.

The patient's evolution was satisfactory, with adequate control of the infection and successful healing.