An 18-year-old patient who 5 months earlier had been the victim of a serious electrical burn caused by 13,800 volts to the face while trying to save a co-worker. She had an extensive injury with loss of both lips and the nose. Great perioral scar retraction and adjacent areas that made it impossible to use any type of local flap for reconstruction of the area. In the nasal region she had loss of skin substance and nasal lining, as well as part of the cartilaginous coverage of the dorsum, tip, colmuela and nasal wings. She had undergone surgical reconstruction with a forehead flap 4 months earlier in another Service, but it progressed to necrosis.

Reconstruction was planned using a bipedicle flap of the anterior cervical region, described by Tsur (3), for the reconstruction of the lips and a right supratrochlear flap for the reconstruction of the nasal lining and another left one for the nasal coverage.
There was a partial loss of the left supratrochlear covering flap and a small partial loss of the right supratrochlear nasal lining flap, which were observed 3 days postoperatively. On the fifteenth day, one of the pedicles of the cervical flap was released and at 30 days, the other was released, after complete integration of the flap to the upper lip. From then on, several flaps were performed under local anesthesia, every 2 months, for the reconstruction of the lower lip, the colmuela and the nasal tip, and thinning was also performed by defatting the main flaps. In total, 7 complementary procedures were performed.
During the course, persistent residual edema of the cervical flap, keloids and hypertrophic scars appeared in the donor areas that were treated with intralesional corticosteroids.
The final reconstruction, 2 years after the Tsur flap was performed, made it possible to create a structure for emotional expression although with limited functionality; The touch-ups and refinements improved the final result, achieving a satisfactory aesthetic appearance and food continence, which sufficiently pleased the patient.
Currently, 4 years after the initial surgery, no further surgical treatments have been scheduled.