A 24-year-old woman, drug addict, HIV negative, with a 9-month history of nodular pulmonary infiltrates with a clinical diagnosis of possible granulomatosis. She debuted 1 month ago with fever and abdominal pain due to a right adnexal mass. During the examination, a 12 cm right ovarian mass was seen, along with another 2 cm transverse colonic mass that was removed. Simultaneously, the patient reported a 4 cm tumor in the right thigh, located deep in the subcutaneous cellular tissue.
The ovarian tumor and the mesenteric nodule had a lobulated external surface, whose section surface showed solid and cystic areas. In the ovary, the cells predominantly presented an epithelioid morphology with a prominent nucleolus and a diffuse growth pattern with small cystic spaces or pseudofollicles. A spindle cell morphology predominated in the mesenteric nodule. Alternative hypercellular and hypocellular areas were observed. There were extensive and frequent areas of geographic necrosis with a tendency to preserve those tumor cells that surrounded the vessels, resulting in a periteliomatous pattern. At higher magnification, the spindle-shaped tumor cells showed an oval nucleus and a non-prominent nucleolus. More than 10-20 mitoses were observed per 10 high power fields. Immunophenotypically, the tumor expressed vimentin, S-100, HMB-45 and actin. Staining for S-100 was intense and diffuse. The tumor did not express epithelial markers or other markers such as CD 117, CD 68, CD 99, collagen IV, estrogen receptors, progesterone receptors and inhibin. The thigh tumor subsequently removed had no relation to the epidermis and was histologically superimposable to the ovarian tumor. The distribution of the tumor nodules, the combination of histological patterns and the immunohistochemical profile was consistent with the diagnosis of metastatic malignant melanoma, originating from a primary tumor of unknown origin since the patient was explored and no worrisome pigmented lesion was found or there were any regression data from one of them.

Treatment with chemotherapy (Cisplatin, Interleukin II, Dacarbacin and Interferon alfa) was initiated and 3 months later, the patient died developing multiple abdominal metastases, including a 13 cm contralateral ovarian mass, retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy and multiple subcutaneous metastases.