A 53-year-old patient at the time of diagnosis and a personal history of a cesarean section, high blood pressure and tachycardia under treatment with Atenolol, who attended the Emergency Department due to a 5-month history of progressive dull pain in the left flank. and microhematuria. Ultrasound and subsequently abdomino-pelvic computed axial tomography (CT) were performed, revealing a large solid mass measuring 20x16x13 cm arising from the left renal pole, without associated venous thrombosis. Para-aortic lymphadenopathy is also observed. All of this is compatible with a left kidney tumor.

Given this finding, an extension study was performed with general analysis in which microcytic iron deficiency anemia and mild hyperuricemia were detected, a chest x-ray that was normal, a bone scan in which an image was observed with a slight increase in tracer uptake corresponding to soft parts, with a rounded morphology, located in the left hypochondrium and void, exceeding the midline and 3 foci of hyperuptake of the tracer, one in the left iliac palate, the 2nd in the left hemivertebrae L4 and L5 and the 3rd at the level of the right hemivertebra L2 that could correspond to bone involvement due to contiguity or be metastatic in nature and an abdominal MRI confirms the CT findings.
With the presumptive diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma with retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy, the patient underwent left radical nephrectomy, removal of all the pararenal fat and the left adrenal gland, and para-aortic and inter-aortocaval lymphadenectomy from the renal artery up to 3 cm from the common iliac artery. . Removal of the mass was difficult due to infiltration of the transverse mesocolon and tail of the pancreas, which were released, leaving the mesocolon spared. The anatomical-pathological result (A.P.) was: Collision renal tumor (Leiomyosarcoma (21 x15 cm) and papillary type renal carcinoma nuclear grade 3 (7 x 3.5 cm)). The weight of the piece as a whole was 2539 grams. The tumor contacted the surgical edge in most areas. The renal parenchyma was microscopically spared and no tumor infiltration was observed. The ureteral fragment and renal hilum were free of tumor infiltration. The immunophenotypic profile of the tumor was as follows: Actin, Desmin, S-100, Synaptofusin and CD 56 and c-kit were negative; Positive smooth muscle actin in the sarcomatous area and positive keratin cocktail (E1, E3) in the carcinomatous area. At the level of the para-aortic chain, 16 lymph nodes were isolated, the largest measuring 2.5 cm, 14 of them presenting metastasis, 13 from carcinoma and 1 with mixed metastasis (sarcoma+carcinoma). In the interaortocaval chain, 6 lymph nodes were isolated, the largest measuring 1.4 cm, 3 of them being metastasis of the carcinoma. The mesocolic bed was infiltrated by leiomyosarcoma. In the peri-adrenal adipose tissue, 4 lymphadenopathy were isolated, 3 of them with carcinoma metastasis and another with mixed metastasis (carcinoma+sarcoma). The left adrenal gland, perinephric fat, and gallbladder did not present tumor elements.

We are therefore faced with a renal collision tumor consisting of a stage IV papillary renal cancer (pT3-4pN2) according to the TNM classification and a stage IV renal leiomyosarcoma (pT2bpN1) according to the AJCC classification that was not radically resected and with possible bone metastases by bone scintigraphy.
The postoperative period was uneventful and the patient was referred to the Medical Oncology Service. It was decided to propose complementary treatment with chemotherapy according to the Ifosfamide 5 g/m2 in continuous infusion of 24 hours x 1 day + Adriamycin 60 mg/m2 x 1 day/21 days against the sarcomatous component of the tumor. Previously, a CT scan was requested in which a small increase in soft tissue was observed behind the pancreatic tail and renal bed that could be compatible with present disease.
The patient begins treatment according to the planned schedule 3 weeks after surgery. She receives a total of 6 cycles with good clinical tolerance. After the 4th cycle, an abdominal CT scan was performed, which was normal, and at the end of the 6th cycle, a bone scan was performed, which showed no pathological findings. The patient undergoes periodic check-ups and 3 months later a chest x-ray is performed in which images suggestive of bilateral lung metastases appear, which are confirmed by CT in which multiple millimetric bilateral lung metastases are observed. In order to determine the origin of these metastases, Thoracic Surgery was consulted and it was decided to perform left video thoracoscopy with biopsies. The A.P. diagnosis It was metastasis from poorly differentiated Carcinoma with epithelial (renal) component. Given this diagnosis, 6 months after finishing the first chemotherapy regimen, it was decided to start a second line of treatment with a chemotherapy regimen with Gemzitabine and Fluoropyrimidines9 that has been shown to be useful in stage IV renal carcinoma: Gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 days 1 and 8 + Capecitabine 1000 mg/m2/12h days 1-14/21 days, which the patient accepts.

Treatment is started with a 20% dose reduction that is maintained for the rest of the treatment given the general condition (ECOG: 1-2) of the patient. After the 2nd cycle, the patient suffers a complication of pulmonary thromboembolism from which she recovers but which causes a delay of 4 weeks in the administration of the 3rd cycle. After 6 cycles of treatment, which she received with acceptable tolerance except for grade 4 anemia, a reassessment was performed with a body CT scan, which showed persistence of lung metastases with the appearance of liver and splenic metastases and local relapse.
Given this progression, treatment with IL-2 is proposed for 6 weeks (1 week of induction with 18 Million Units (MU) x 5 days and 5 weeks: 9 MU days 1 and 2 and 18 MU days 3 to 5)10. The patient accepts the treatment she receives with moderate toxicity with grade 2 secondary constitutional symptoms, grade 3 anemia and grade 1 emesis, maintaining her general condition.
At the end of the treatment, a new reassessment with CT was performed, which showed progression of the disease with a large mass in the surgical bed measuring 19x10x5cm, which had grown with respect to the previous CT, and persistence of metastases in the rest of the previous locations. The patient's general condition worsened with the appearance of abdominal and lumbar pain and on physical examination a 5 cm epigastric mass was palpated corresponding to the underlying mass.
Given this new progression, it is considered that the tumor is resistant to chemo or immunotherapy regimens against renal carcinoma and it is proposed to begin palliative treatment with liposomal adriamycin against the sarcomatous component of the tumor. The patient accepts the proposal and receives a first cycle. However, a week later she went to the emergency room due to hypovolemic shock with metabolic acidosis and prerenal renal failure secondary to hyperemesis of 4 days' duration and grade 4 anemia. The patient recovered from this episode but a week later she began to experience fecaloid vomiting of probable obstructive origin due to compression of the retroperitoneal mass, causing progressive deterioration of the patient and the patient died due to multiple organ failure 19 months after diagnosis.