A 20-year-old patient comes to the emergency room with low back pain and fever. The patient undergoes urine cultures, blood cultures, and a study of tumor markers (tests that are negative). Computed axial tomography (CT) detects a tumor mass that affects the upper pole of the right kidney. After which surgical resection of the tumor is performed.

The surgical resection piece consisted of a tumor mass with a largest diameter of 14 cm, with infiltration of the upper pole and middle segment of the kidney, and involvement of the sinus and pyelocalyceal system. The presence of tumor lymphatic vascular invasion was observed in the kidney tissue and adjacent fat. Medullary metastasis of the adrenal gland, invasion of the perinephric fat and nodules of the interaortic cava chain.
By performing immunohistochemistry techniques on paraffin sections with different monoclonal antibodies (Dako), the following staining pattern compatible with a desmoplastic small round cell tumor was found: cytokeratins 8, 18 and 19 (+), glial fibrillary acidic protein (-), desmin (+), vimentin (+), synaptophysin (+), chromogranin (-), actin (weakly +), and S-100 (weakly +).

The cytogenetic study of the t(11;22) (p13;q12) translocation involving the EWS1 and WT1 genes was also carried out by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), for which the LSI EWSR1 (22q12) Dual Color kit was used. Break Apart Rearrangement Probe (VYSIS). Which is made up of a mixture of two probes that completely flank the EWS1 gene locus, the most centromeric probe is marked with Spectrum-Orange and the most telomeric ones with Spectrum-Green. As a result of this design, any translocation in which the EWS1 locus is involved produces the separation of the red-green fusion signal into a red and a green signal. The pattern observed in our case corresponds to the normal pattern, with the presence of two red-green fusion signals for each tumor cell, therefore confirming the absence of translocation in the patient.

The patient was treated with three cycles of CAV, four cycles of Ifosfamide/VP-16, and subsequently CTX, ADR, and VCR. As a result of this treatment, tumor infiltration in the bone marrow was not detected. However, reappearance of the tumor and liver metastasis were later detected by CT. After which there is no response to the treatment and the patient dies two years after the initial diagnosis.