The clinical case of a doctor specializing in microbiology, with many years of experience, who is accidentally inoculated, when performing the antibiogram by the BACTEC MGIT 960 method, with a pure strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, isolated from a sputum sample from an itinerant patient of Spanish origin; pricking itself on the external lateral surface of the distal phalanx of the index finger, passing through the glove with the contaminated needle.
At the time of inoculation, he carries out immediate treatment of the wound (washing with soap and water), later communicating it to the Occupational Risk Prevention Service (SPRL) where the inoculation is registered as a work accident.
In the SPRL, the medical-labor history of the injured worker is reviewed and it is observed as interesting information that she has a previous positive Mantoux; Analyzes and serologies are requested for HCV, HIV and quantified post-vaccination antibodies to hepatitis B; Likewise, the worker is informed that in the event of any sign or symptom compatible with tuberculosis or problems at the inoculation site, she will consult the SPRL.
Three weeks later, an erythematous papule appears at the inoculation site, slightly painful to pressure, which grows until it reaches a size of 1.5-2 cm, without axillary lymphadenopathy or general symptoms. (Image 3)

Image 3. Biopsy of the lesion

When the worker observed that the injury was not improving, she made an informal consultation with the Plastic Surgery Service, from which a biopsy and excision of the lesion was requested. The anatomo-pathological results of granulomatous dermatitis, with occasional necrosis, are highly suggestive of tuberculous dermatitis. (Image 4)

Image 4. Pathological anatomy: granulomatous dermatitis, suggestive of tuberculous dermatitis.

In the microbiological study, dubious acid-alcohol-resistant bacilli were observed, and when cultured in BACTEC MGIT 960, the growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis was confirmed. Subsequently, both isolates (from the source and from the injured worker) were studied by MIRU (Mycobacterial interspersed repetitive units), confirming the identity of both strains. (Image 5)

Image 5. Microbiological Study

The Diagnosis of Cutaneous Tuberculosis is confirmed and the worker is referred to the Internal Medicine Service, where after being evaluated she begins anti-tuberculosis treatment with rifampicin 600 mg, 250 mg. of isoniazid and 1500 mgr. of pyrazinamide on an empty stomach for two months, continuing for 4 more months with rifampicin 600 mg and isoniazid 300 mg per day. This service also monitors the patient with monthly tests in which no alterations are detected, good tolerance to the medication is observed, and she is discharged from the hospital 7 months after the start of treatment.
The SPRL carries out the notification of Occupational Diseases according to RD 1299/2006, of November 10, which approves the list of occupational diseases in the Social Security system and establishes criteria for their notification and registration.