A 22-year-old male patient attended the maxillofacial surgery service of the San José Hospital, referred by his dentist due to a painless increase in volume in relation to the body and left mandibular branch of undetermined evolution. The patient had no previous morbid or surgical history.
The extraoral examination revealed an increase in volume that involved the area of ​​the left mandibular body and ramus that had not been previously investigated by the patient. There was no skin involvement and no lymphadenopathy was recorded. He also had no associated sensory involvement and the mandibular functional examination was normal.

On intraoral examination, the patient showed partial edentulousness due to the absence of the left lower canine and molars, and an increase in the volume of the dented surface that involved the body and ramus on the same side. The mucosa that covered it had whitish areas, was painless on palpation and had a hard consistency.

A panoramic radiograph was requested in which a predominantly radiopaque, bilocular and well-defined mixed lesion was observed that extended from the root of the lower right lateral incisor to the middle area of ​​the left mandibular ramus, equivalent to 12cm in its greatest diameter and 4cm in its smallest diameter. Included in the lesion, the tooth germs of the canine, first and second lower left molars were appreciated. The anterior edge of the ramus, alveolar ridge, and basilar edge were expanded.

A CT scan was requested, which showed thinning of the bone cortices, mainly the vestibular. From this, a stereolithographic model was requested to plan the definitive surgery.

An incisional biopsy of the lesion was performed. Histopathological examination stained with hematoxylin-eosin showed a lesion consisting mainly of a fibroblastic stroma with variable cellularity, containing multiple calcified structures of different sizes and irregular distribution. The histopathological diagnosis was FO.

With this diagnosis, definitive surgery was planned. In the stereolithographic model, a 2.4 reconstruction plate was modeled, which extended at the level of the basilar edge from the lower right first molar to the upper area of ​​the left mandibular ramus.
The mandible was exposed through a cervical approach and an en bloc resection of the involved mandibular segment was performed, considering the edges of the tumor as limits. Subsequently, mandibular reconstruction was performed using a microvascularized fibula graft, which was adapted to the reconstruction plate and sectioned into three parts to facilitate its adaptation to the plate.

In the postoperative management of the patient, antibiotic therapy and conventional analgesia were used in conjunction with revulsants and a soft diet. The latter lasted for a month.
After one year postoperatively, the patient's oral rehabilitation was carried out by placing osseointegrated implants on which a hybrid prosthesis was made.

The patient is maintained with periodic clinical and radiographic controls. Currently, after 5 years, he is in very good condition.