40-year-old woman, with no relevant medical history. She attended the Primary Care consultation due to a 10-day history of dyspepsia with epigastralgia and retrosternal heartburn. The anamnesis ruled out dietary transgressions, ingestion of drugs or gastro-injurious substances, and the presence of organic symptoms or alarming clinical data. The physical examination was normal. The patient was diagnosed with uninvestigated dyspepsia. Treatment was instituted with hygienic-dietary measures and omeprazole 20 mg/day for 4 weeks, and the patient was scheduled for review.
The patient reported slight clinical improvement. The dose of omeprazole was increased to full doses and a prokinetic drug was added. The patient was scheduled for a new check-up in 4 weeks, in which the presence of mechanical oropharyngeal dysphagia was evident as a warning sign. An EDA was preferably performed, which revealed the presence of esophageal exudate in the proximal 2/3. Samples of the lesions were taken by brushing for pathological study and culture, which confirmed the diagnosis: candidal esophagitis.

The patient was treated with fluconazole 100 mg/day for 21 days and pantoprazole 40 mg/day orally, achieving complete remission.
Given the diagnosis of CD, the study of its possible causes and associated entities (neurological, neoplastic, metabolic, systemic, immunosuppression, etc.) was completed through anamnesis, physical examination, complete analysis (with thyroid, liver and kidney function, diabetic profile , immunological status of the patient, serological study, etc.) and chest and abdominal x-rays. The results of all complementary tests were negative. After completing the study, the only risk factor found was treatment with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs).
Finally, the patient was diagnosed with CD in an immunocompetent patient. In the literature reviewed, patients with CD related to taking PPIs had undergone such treatment for at least 2 months6-8 (like our patient). We decided to suspend this treatment after clinical resolution, subsequently performing a control EDA that was normal.