This is a 21-year-old woman, with no previous history of interest, who initially consulted the Emergency Service of her Health Center due to odynophagia and fever. She was diagnosed with acute pharyngitis, and was prescribed treatment with oral amoxicillin. for a week. After the treatment, the patient went to her primary care doctor, reporting a remission of fever but with the persistence of odynophagia, which she related to a lesion she had on the left lateral edge of her tongue. The examination revealed a whitish ulcerated lesion, approximately 1 cm in diameter, on the lateral edge of the tongue, about 3.4 cm from the tip. No lymphadenopathy or other lesions were found at the oropharyngeal level. The lesion was labeled as a lingual canker sore, in the context of a post-infectious condition, and symptomatic treatment was indicated to relieve the discomfort. After 15 days, the lesion did not experience any improvement, and upon re-examination of the patient it was confirmed that the lesion could have preceded the infectious condition. With these data, the patient was referred for a biopsy of the lesion. In the intraoperative biopsy, squamous cell carcinoma was diagnosed that reached the surgical edge. In the microscopic description, an ulcerated neoformation is recognized that infiltrates deep to the vicinity of the deep resection edge without reaching it. The neoformation is made up of epithelial cells that are arranged in nests or cords. These cells have a low mitotic index and have a tendency to form horny globes. The diagnosis is well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma that infiltrates close to the surgical resection edge. Subsequently, a biopsy of a cervical fibroadipose fragment containing 25 lymph nodes was performed, all 25 of which were negative for tumor cells. The patient underwent surgery where a functional neck dissection and a left hemiglossectomy were performed using a CO2 laser. The evolution was satisfactory, being asymptomatic until now and without signs of recurrence.