A 40-year-old patient came to the outpatient clinic of the Digestive Service for a study of elevated transaminases in a routinely performed blood test. In the abdominal ultrasound study, an LOE was detected in segments 2 and 3 of the liver with a maximum size of 4 cm, with solid characteristics compatible with the diagnosis of hepatoma. In the multislice abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan, a focal lesion with lobulated edges measuring 4 cm in diameter was observed in segments 2 and 3, which enhanced intensely after the injection of intravenous contrast in the arterial phase; and with lavage in the portal phase, findings compatible with the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. No evidence of other focal lesions. The intrahepatic bile duct was not dilated and the gallbladder did not show stone images.

Fine needle aspiration (FNA) of the lesion was performed under ultrasound control with a negative result for malignant cells and a positive CD 34 in the immunohistochemical study.

The systematic blood analysis was normal, as well as liver function, determination of immunoglobulins, antibodies and tumor markers. Viral markers were also negative.
Given the diagnosis of probable hepatoma on a non-cirrhotic liver, surgical resection was decided. A resection of segments 2 and 3 was performed by laparoscopy, using two No. 12 ports, periumbilical and in the right hypochondrium, and a gel port in the left hypochondrium. In the intraoperative histological study, hepatocellular proliferation was diagnosed without histological signs of malignancy, leaving the lesion 2 cm from the edge of the surgical resection. In the pathological study, the nodular formation presented liver tissue with a compact trabecular pattern of up to 3 cell layers, with proliferation of large muscular arteries surrounded by a dense connective stroma, where no preserved portal spaces were identified. The pathological diagnosis was focal nodular hyperplasia. The postoperative course was uncomplicated and he was discharged on the fourth postoperative day.