18-month-old girl who consulted due to a tick bite on the head detected 24 hours previously. Her mother believes that it could have happened 3-4 days before, since she went out to the countryside (April). No domestic animals (dogs or other pets) lived with them. The tick was removed manually, and it was about 5 mm in diameter. On the day of the consultation, she started fever and they noticed some lumps on her head.
At the consultation, upon examination she was in good general condition, although she was irritable and somewhat down. In the left parieto-occipital region, a blackish eschar about 7 mm in diameter with mild erythema was visible. In the skull there were multiple small mastoid and posterior cervical lymphadenopathy between 1 and 1.5 cm in diameter, slightly painful on palpation. The rest of the examination was normal and there were no rashes.
Initially, an analysis was requested to study the tick bite and treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid was recommended, considering a possible superinfection of the bite.
Controlled a week later, the eschar, lymphadenopathy and fever persisted. The results of the analyzes showed leukocytosis with an increase in the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) up to 20 mm/h and C-reactive protein (PrCR) of 10 mg/dl. , the serologies of Borrelia burgdorferri and Rickettesia connori were negative. Given the poor evolution of the condition and suspicion of rickettsiosis, the case was consulted with infectious disease specialists at our reference hospital and treatment with oral ciprofloxacin was decided, requesting a new analysis with serology.
The patient is monitored a week later, being already afebrile and with good evolution of the lymphadenopathy, which returns slowly, only a small area of ​​alopecia persists of about 2 cm in diameter. In the control analysis, a decrease in leukocytosis and SV was observed.
The second serological control ten days later showed a R. connori titer: IgG ≤ 1:40 and IgM 1:320. No sample could be sent for R. slovaca study.
Two months later the girl was asymptomatic and serology showed decreasing titers against R. connori IgG 1:40 and IgM ≤ 1:40.