A 70-year-old woman, whose personal history included breast cancer surgery 14 years earlier, went to the emergency room of another hospital due to intense pain in her lower lip accompanied by swelling and edema in her lip, chin, and submandibular area that had suddenly woken her up. at night. She was initially treated with IV corticosteroids and analgesia, and she was referred to her home. Four days later, the patient arrived at the emergency room of our hospital describing that her lesion had turned "blackish and yellowish." The injury was not painful nor did it present fever or other accompanying symptoms. During the interrogation, the patient reported having recently seen spiders in her home. This picture was contextualized in an epidemic of bites by the Loxosceles recluse spider in the same geographical area. In the previous 15 days, 7 cases of bites on upper and lower limbs had been diagnosed in the emergency room.
On examination, a single lesion of about 2 cm was seen, necrotic in appearance and well delimited, which occupied the lateral third of the skin, vermilion and commissure of the left lower lip surrounded by a white and purplish halo. Intraorally, a pale mucosal lesion was observed in continuity with signs of necrosis and fibrinous exudate that did not come off when scraped. Laboratory tests were requested, a biopsy was taken, and treatment with oral amoxicillin/clavulanic acid was instituted. Suspecting a spider bite, the infectious diseases service was consulted. The differential diagnosis was made with necrotic skin-mucosal lesions, such as cellulitis, vasculitis, diabetic ulcers, vascular insufficiency, drug reactions, thermal or chemical, infectious or traumatic burns, ruling out all of them. After 7 days, debridement of the necrotic tissue was performed under local anesthesia. The suggestive clinical and epidemiological context, together with the laboratory and pathological results and the differential diagnosis, led to the probable diagnosis. After 2 months, given the limited aesthetic and functional impact of the scar defect, lip reconstruction was not necessary.