56-year-old patient, treated for left lingual border cancer by left glossectomy and left cervical lymphadenectomy, pT4N2bM0 positive surgical border, receiving concurrent adjuvant radiochemotherapy (cisplatin, three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy) (66Gy tumor bed, 54Gy cervical chains) ending in March 2006. In November 2007 (18 months) we observed a right laterocervical mass, level II, measuring 4cm and 29mm on CT. Negative extension study. Pathological anatomy: carcinoma. Considered unresectable by the Head and Neck Tumor Committee (CTCC) due to doubts about infiltration of the sternocleidomastoid muscle, we decided on chemotherapy (cisplatin six cycles) and reevaluation. In May 2008, cervical MRI revealed partial remission (24mm). Assessed at CTCC, we decided on right modified functional cervical lymphadenectomy with resection of the jugular vein and spinal nerve encompassed by tumor mass, followed by interstitial HDRBT (June 2008), placing the vectors during the surgical procedure. After total removal, the tumor bed and risk organs (carotid, brachial plexus) were identified by the surgeon and the oncologist. We use a monoplane implant with five plastic tubes (1cm apart, minimizing the risk of vascular toxicity) and Nucletron® comfort buttons (catheter-skin fixation). We use helical CT slices (5mm) for therapeutic simulation. The pathological anatomy was metastasis from poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma in 4 of 7 resected lymph nodes, all with extranodal infiltration. The HDRBT planning volume was defined as 5mm from the center of the catheter. The total dose of 34Gy (10 fractions of 3.4Gy, 2 per day [6 hours apart], five consecutive days), was started five days after surgery.

As a multidisciplinary follow-up we evaluate: functional status, physical examination, toxicity, TSH value, and cervical CT. In February 2011, the patient is disease-free, in good general condition, without pain, as chronic toxicity: grade I soft tissue fibrosis (National Cancer Institute criteria [version 3.0]).