An 83-year-old patient with a personal history of high blood pressure and a mixed endometrial, endometrioid and clear cell carcinoma, stage T1N0M0, which was detected one year before the current admission due to metrorrhagia. The patient underwent a hysterectomy with bilateral adnexectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy, completing the treatment with adjuvant brachytherapy, which was completed 5 months before the current admission. She attended check-ups at outpatient gynecological oncology clinics and has been disease-free to date.
Upon admission, she presented with progressive asthenia, anorexia and weakness for two weeks, disorientation and bradyphasia for two days, as well as constipation, polyuria, nocturia and polydipsia. In a control analysis at her primary care center, she had a calcium level of 15.35 mg/dL (reference values ​​[v.r.] between 8.8 mg/dL and 10.2 mg/dL).
In the emergency room, an analysis is performed that shows a calcium level of 16.1 mg/dL with an ionic calcium of 6.3 mg/dL (i.e. between 4.2 mg/dL and 5.4 mg/dL), with a physical examination , normal abdominal x-ray and electrocardiogram.
She was diagnosed with hypercalcemic syndrome and was treated with rehydration, intravenous zoledronate and furosemide, reducing calcium levels to normal values ​​between the third and sixth day of treatment3,4.
The patient is admitted to the internal medicine ward where the following results are observed: ESR 106 mm/h, albumin 3.16 g/dL, PTH 21.5 pg/mL (v.r. between 7 pg/mL and 82 pg/mL), 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 9.9 ng/mL (v.r. between 6.6 ng/mL and 46.4 ng/mL) with negative tumor markers.
Given the patient's personal history of uterine neoplasia, a bone scan was requested, which was normal, and a thoracic and abdominal CT scan showed a mass in the cul-de-sac of Douglas measuring 10 cm x 8 cm with peritoneal tumor implants and lung metastases. A transvaginal biopsy of the Douglas cul-de-sac mass was performed and a recurrence of its neoplastic disease was confirmed. The patient is currently in a palliative care facility.