A 78-year-old man diagnosed in January 2012 with SS stage III-B/IV-A1 (T4N0M0) with extensive skin involvement, whose personal history was a 20-cigarette-a-day smoker, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, atrial fibrillation, and prostatic hyperplasia. benign
He was diagnosed with lichen planus in 2010 by the Dermatology Service, presenting itching that was controlled with corticosteroids and systemic antihistamines, PUVA therapy and acitretin. When he was diagnosed with SS, he added oral chlorambucil to therapy. After 10 months, in November 2012, loss of response was observed, starting 2nd line treatment with bexarotene together with gabapentin 300 mg per day with the aim of improving pruritus control.
The skin progression after 2 months of treatment, as well as the insomnia and depression, associated with the uncontrollable itching that he suffered, led to starting a 3rd line of treatment, administering polychemotherapy according to the CVP scheme (cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisone), without doxorubicin for the comorbidities he presented. Unfortunately, after 2 cycles of treatment, the patient still had no response or improvement in pruritus. The next available option, extracorporeal photopheresis, was rejected by the reference center, and in this situation it was decided to administer aprepitant as antipruritus therapy, a use outside the authorized indications.
From the Pharmacy Service and together with the Hematology Service, the literature on the matter was reviewed, and the doses used in the different series of published cases were compared, starting with a dose of 80 mg daily for 10 days and continuing with 80 mg every 48 days. hours. Since this was an indication outside the technical specifications, the patient was asked for informed consent.
Each container of Emend® (aprepitant) includes one 125 mg and two 80 mg doses. Given that in this case the dose to be used was 80 mg, in order to take advantage of the 125 mg capsule, it was decided to prepare a suspension of aprepitant. To do this, the contents of the aprepitant4 capsules (125 mg +80 mg +80 mg) were extracted and 7 mL of the Ora-Plus® vehicle and another 7 mL of Ora-Sweet® were added, obtaining a suspension of 20 mg. /mL, which was repackaged into 4 mL (80 mg) oral syringes. The suspension was given a stability of 90 days, storing it in a refrigerator. The patient was provided with both oral and written information about the days on which the treatment should be taken, the need to store it in the refrigerator, and the most frequent adverse effects.
After 15 days of starting treatment with aprepitant, the patient reported significant improvement in pruritus. Until now, pruritus had always been assessed subjectively. It was decided to evaluate the patient's pruritus using the visual analogue scale (VAS) (0 = no pruritus and 10 = the worst imaginable pruritus), evaluating it with a VAS of 5. Given the effectiveness of the treatment and the absence of adverse effects, It was decided to continue with the regimen of 80 mg every 48 hours.
After a week, the patient was admitted for vesicular lesions and pain in the right hemithorax. During admission, good pruritus control was maintained. Gabapentin was also discontinued due to treatment-associated tremors and a 4th line of treatment for CTCL (pegylated liposomal doxorubicin) was administered. When the patient was discharged, he did not take the aprepitant syringes by mistake, spending approximately 1 week without the treatment and upon returning to the consultation, he reported worsening of the itching, so he restarted treatment with aprepitant. After 3 cycles of chemotherapy, it was decided to suspend doxorubicin given the skin progression. As a last option, weekly gemcitabine was administered, which had to be withdrawn due to poor tolerance. Finally, and with a VAS of 9, it was decided to suspend all chemotherapy and maintain the best supportive therapy, continuing treatment with aprepitant until the end of the disease.