26-day-old male with no relevant family, prenatal or perinatal history. Around three weeks of age he began to experience vomiting, which increased, and the day before he was admitted, it occurred with each feeding, abundant and projectile. The patient was eager to eat and was in good general condition.
Upon presentation to the Emergency Department, there was a clinical suspicion of hypertrophic pyloric stenosis, supported by a blood gas analysis showing metabolic alkalosis and an ultrasound with a characteristic target image. The patient underwent open surgery using the Ramstedt technique, without incident. Before the procedure, the patient was intubated without complications.
14 hours after surgery, predominantly inspiratory stridor was heard for the first time, which did not change with sleep, position or diet. The mother was re-examined, and she denied hearing it before. The patient did not have any signs of respiratory distress or oxygen desaturation on pulse oximetry.
Since this was a previously healthy patient in whom stridor had not been heard before, it was suspected that operative intubation and associated post-traumatic edema could be the cause. Nebulization with adrenaline and a dose of intravenous dexamethasone were administered. After two hours, the stridor had not changed, and as the patient continued without signs of respiratory distress, the approach to this problem began.
A plain chest radiograph showed no abnormalities in the lung parenchyma, neck structures, or tracheal air column. Subsequently, using a flexible nasolaryngoendoscopy, the supraglottic structures and intact vocal cords were verified, without morphological alterations or abnormal movements. The next step was a fluoroscopic series with oral contrast, which demonstrated a notch in the posterior wall of the upper third of the esophagus. During that time the patient showed no changes in his symptoms. After pylorus surgery he had not had vomiting again. At no time did he present signs of respiratory distress associated with stridor.
Days later, a bronchoscopy was performed, in which a pulsating extrinsic compression was observed 2 cm above the carina, which obstructed more than 50% of the lumen of the trachea and was not modified by positive pressure. Given the strong suspicion of a vascular malformation that was responsible for the decrease in tracheal caliber, a computed tomography angiography (CT angiography) was performed, in which a complete double aortic arch could be identified, with predominance of the right arch as the cause. of tracheal constriction. Echocardiography was normal.

The patient was operated on through a left lateral thoracic approach surgery that was performed without a hitch.

In the first hours after surgery, a significant decrease in the intensity of the inspiratory noise was noted. He was discharged and over the next few weeks the residual stridor continued to subside. He did not present respiratory or digestive symptoms again, and in a follow-up visit two months after surgery, the stridor ended up disappearing completely.