A one-month-old male infant, with no personal history of interest, who went to the emergency room for the third time in the last week with partially consolable crying. He had been diagnosed with infant colic and the usual measures were recommended. He is exclusively breastfed. In the last 48 hours he feeds worse, the crying, which was initially in the evening, continues all day and his mother has not been able to calm him in her arms since yesterday. He remains afebrile and in excellent general condition, with adequate weight gain, currently weighing 4 kg. The physical examination revealed abdominal distension and a mass was palpated at the periumbilical level that extended to the right flank, with no obvious defense evident. He frankly refuses breastfeeding in the emergency room and vomits food.
With suspicion of intestinal obstruction, an abdominal x-ray is performed in which a marked abdominal silence (absence of gas) appears in the right hemiabdomen and mass effect with displacement of the intestinal loops towards the left hemiabdomen. Ultrasound shows an image of approximately 9 x 8.7 x 7.9 cm at the central-abdominal level, which behaves as a large focal space-occupying lesion with cystic characteristics without vascular flow on color Doppler and multiloculated and multiseptate.

It was decided to transfer to a reference center for pediatric surgery. The study is completed with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the abdomen, in which a voluminous intra-abdominal cystic mass measuring approximately 90 x 60 x 65 mm appears, located mainly on the right flank and the central abdominal region. It extends from the lower edge of the liver, in front of the right kidney, displacing the intestinal structures to the left. It is a multilocular mass, with well-defined borders and thin walls, with multiple cystic components of different sizes. The first diagnostic suspicion in a cystic lymphangioma of the mesentery.

He underwent surgery through a midline laparotomy and excision of a multicystic mass containing whitish fluid that depended on the mesentery of a loop of the middle ileum. This loop is resected and end-to-end anastomosis is performed. The postoperative period, the first 24 hours in the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) and the rest on the ward, was uneventful and in eight days he was sent home with adequate enteral tolerance and without complications.
The pathological anatomy confirms the diagnosis of mesenteric cystic lymphagioma by observing a multiseptate cystic mass approximately 5 cm in diameter with a smooth whitish wall 0.1 cm thick.