This is a 79-year-old woman with a history of high blood pressure, osteoporosis, and a hysterectomy for myomatosis at the age of 50. She underwent surgery in October 2006 by transurethral resection of infiltrating bladder carcinoma. Subsequently, he received radiotherapy sessions up to a total of 50 Gy due to the persistence of an external tumor mass in the right corner of the bladder, ending said treatment in June 2007. In August 2007, he began treatment with chemotherapy due to the persistence of the bladder lesion and metastasis to the spine. detected by follow-up CT and bone scan. Her digestive history began in February 2008 when she was admitted for episodes of rectal bleeding that were initially scarce and of distal characteristics, but which shortly after became more frequent and profuse, accompanied by symptoms of hemodynamic instability and severe anemization with extensive transfusion requirements.
A total colonoscopy was performed where only alterations typical of actinic proctitis with large friable and bleeding neovascular lesions were observed; treatment with argon plasma (APC) is performed. The patient's clinical course was unfavorable: she was treated consecutively with steroid enemas, 5-aminosalicylic, and sucralfate; In addition, three more therapeutic rectoscopies were performed applying treatment with APC, despite which the episodes of profuse rectal bleeding with hemodynamic instability that required transfusion of up to a total of 21 packed red blood cells persisted throughout the patient's hospitalization period, despite to also receive oral and intravenous iron therapy.
Given the lack of response to these treatments, the case was discussed with the surgeon for topical treatment with formalin, who, using spinal anesthesia and anal dilation, treated the rectal blister for 10 minutes with a 10% formalin solution 200 ml + 300 ml of water; The patient's tolerance to the procedure was excellent, she progressed without any complications and from that moment on the patient remained completely asymptomatic without new episodes of hemorrhagic externalization, hemodynamic instability or new transfusion requirements; She was discharged and a follow-up colonoscopy was proposed after treatment, but she did not accept.
Four months later she was admitted again due to signs of tumor progression, and symptomatic treatment was decided by the Oncology Service and the patient died, but without recurrence of rectal bleeding.