A 39-year-old woman diagnosed with complex regional pain syndrome type I of the right upper extremity, with a previous history of two arthroscopic surgeries in that shoulder. The last surgery presented as a complication an infection caused by pseudomonas which was successfully treated. The patient complained of burning pain, of moderate to severe intensity, every day in her right upper extremity, which did not respond to conventional analgesic treatments. Associated with this, she presented edema, color changes and trophic changes in said limb. Aside from CRPS, the patient was in good general health, neurologically normal, without hypertension or diabetes.
It was decided to perform a Stellate Ganglion Block for which intravenous access was established and the patient was monitored with electrocardiogram, blood pressure and O2 saturation. The block was performed through a paratracheal approach using a 3.5 cm long needle with 10 ml of 1% procaine without epinephrine; The cricoid cartilage was palpated to discern the C6 level. The transverse process of the sixth vertebra was palpated between the trachea and the carotid sheath. Prior to the injection, aspiration was performed in order to rule out puncture of any vascular structure; aspiration was negative. After the blockade she presented Horner's Syndrome.
Five minutes after the block, the patient manifested discomfort, dizziness and intense headache. The patient's blood pressure increased from 135/80 to 235/135 mmHg, with sinus tachycardia. The hypertension was relieved with the administration of intravenous metoprolol in divided doses, thereby lowering the blood pressure to 140/90 mmHg. After her vital signs were restored to normal levels, the patient complained of dizziness and fatigue accompanied by headache and hiccups, for which she was hospitalized.
An ECG, neurological examination and a cranial CT scan were performed; these examinations did not reveal any abnormalities. Thyroid tests were also performed to exclude thyrotoxicosis, which were normal. Days later the patient returned to the clinic and reported weakness and a 'swaying movement of the head' which had no medical explanation. The 'movement' disappeared two months later without the need for medication.