A 20-month-old girl was admitted for a prolonged febrile syndrome of 5 months' duration, intermittent in the first months and constant in the next 2, with a maximum temperature of less than 39° and intermittent in the last two months. He presented a maculopapuloerythematous, evanescent rash on the trunk and proximal part of the extremities, lymphadenopathy since 13 months of age, affecting cervical, axillary and inguinal lymph nodes, and hepatomegaly. Analytical data showed anemia (9.3 g/dl), leukocytosis (27,340/mm3) and increased ESR. The clinical and analytical manifestations suggest AlJs, and treatment was initiated with oral prednisone at 2 mg/kg/day (10 mg every 12 hours). After a month, the dose is reduced by adding an interleukin 1 receptor antagonist (Anakinra) at 1 mg/kg/day subcutaneously.
After 2 weeks of treatment, he presented with hypertransaminemia of probable viral etiology, and anakinra was withdrawn, which caused clinical worsening with reappearance of skin lesions, arthralgias and low-grade fever, requiring high doses of corticosteroids to control the disease, which is why he was requested to the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Commission (CFT) of the Hospital the off-label use of canakinumab.
Canakinumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that binds with high affinity to human interleukin-1 beta, thereby neutralizing its biological activity4. At the time of the application, canakinumab was indicated for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) in adults, adolescents and children from 2 years of age, but there is a recently published study5 with results of this drug in JIA. in children over 4 years old administered at 4mg/kg subcutaneously every 4 weeks. The CFT agreed to approve it and treatment was started at 2 mg/kg every 4 weeks to check tolerance. Given the patient's weight, the Pharmacy Service reformulates the vial to be able to use it in various doses and be more efficient.
Adequate tolerance and good response to the biologic is observed at a dose of 2 mg/kg/4 weeks, with symptoms disappearing, which allows the corticosteroid dose to be reduced to 8 mg/day, continuing the good evolution. The dose of canakinumab is increased to 3 mg/kg/4 weeks and the corticosteroid is tapered until discontinued.
After 6 months of treatment, he suffered a new relapse with sustained low-grade fever, irritability and some skin lesions, so the dose of canakinumab was increased to the expected optimal dose of 4 mg/kg/4 weeks, reintroducing corticosteroids. The disease remained stable despite an infectious process that subsided without secondary complications, during which the administration of the biological was suspended.
After 7 months of treatment, subcutaneous methotrexate 7.5 mg/week was added along with calcium folinate, 7 mg/week, due to the development of joint manifestations in the elbows and carpus that appear painful and inflamed. Eight weeks later, a condition occurred with impaired coagulation and hypertrasaminaemia, probably secondary to treatment with methotrexate, and monocytosis that required admission and the suspension of methotrexate and canakinumab. During admission, the patient progressed favorably and was diagnosed with active polyarticular JSA, so it was decided to start etanercept 0.4 mg/kg/week subcutaneously for the treatment of the joint manifestations. Although the clinical response to the new biologic is satisfactory, its administration is suspended for 15 days due to a new elevation in transaminases until resolution. 2 months later the patient was admitted for arthrocentesis in both knees. From then on, the patient maintained treatment with etanercept 0.4 mg/week, continuing to improve without skin lesions or fever and allowing corticosteroids to be decreased to 4 mg/day.