A 33-year-old male patient was referred for consultation due to a tumor in the basal region of the mandible at the parasymphyseal level on the right side of several years of evolution and slow growth. His medical history included suffering from tuberous sclerosis and having undergone a kidney transplant after suffering a nephrectomy for renal angiomyolipoma. He presented as symptoms of the disease the so-called Pringle sebaceous adenoma at the nasolabial level, retinal hamartomas in the fundus of the eye and fibrotic lesions at the posterior cervical level. During the clinical examination, a hard lesion adhered to the jaw was observed, measuring approximately 2x2 cm in diameter, with slight pain on palpation. On the skin of the lateral cervical region and on the nape of the neck, multiple small excrescent lesions of dark color and fibrotic appearance were observed. The intraoral examination revealed gingival hyperplasia, which was attributed to chronic anticonvulsant treatment with hydantoin to avoid the epileptic seizures typical of his underlying syndrome and which the patient had previously suffered.

In the panoramic radiograph, an increase in bone density was observed at the mandibular level in the parasymphyseal region, and in the CT, a chondroid-type bone excrescence and an erosion of the mandibular cortex at the right parasymphyseal level without a soft tissue mass component. The radiographic differential diagnosis included: ameloblastoma, odontogenic myxoma, aneurysmal cyst, chondromyxoid fibroma, central hemangioma or eosinophilic granuloma.

Under general anesthesia and using a cutaneous approach, the hard rounded lesion was excised with a safety margin in the jaw. In addition, the excision of the cervical fibroids was carried out in the same surgical procedure using CO2 laser. The day after the intervention the patient was discharged. He has subsequently been reviewed in outpatient clinics without so far presenting any signs or symptoms of recurrence of the jaw injury for three years.

The pathological study of the excised mandibular bone lesion reported that it was a lesion formed by low numbers of fibroblasts and a stroma with a large amount of hyalinized collagen. Bone spicules were observed inside without an osteoid rim, indicative of bone infiltration of the tumor. The lesion presented spindle-shaped cells with elongated and uniform nuclei with few mitoses and no atypia, which gave them benign characteristics. The study concluded that it was a desmoplastic fibroma.