The case at hand is that of a 62-year-old man who suffers from central thoracic pain, a tingling sensation in his hands, and nausea. A week earlier he had had a similar episode without requiring medical assistance. 45 minutes after the symptoms appeared, he was treated at the hospital in his area, diagnosed with an inferior infarction, and starting fibrinolysis with Streptokinase 1,500,000 IU. He was also treated with Solinithrin, Aspirin and Zantac, and was subsequently referred to the Regional Hospital as there were no beds available in the Coronary Care Unit.
Half an hour after his admission to the Regional Hospital (around 4:30 hours after the symptoms appeared), he began to experience pain in both lower limbs, accompanied by intense paleness and absence of pulse. Computerized Axial Tomography (CAT) was performed, which ruled out aortic dissection and, given the suspicion of embolism, the patient was referred to the Provincial Hospital.
At the Reference Center, a chest CT scan was performed, which showed no pathology in the thoracic aorta, and an ultrasound of the lower limbs, which showed bilateral occlusion at the popliteal level. He underwent surgery, performing bilateral embolectomy, recovering the color, but the coldness persisting. The histopathological study shows fibrohematic thrombotic material.
After the first few hours, the patient shows hemodynamic instability, with the appearance of lividity in the lower limbs, renal failure and shock, with death finally occurring 24 hours after the onset of symptoms.
In the external examination of the corpse, a violet red color was seen in the lower third of the thighs, knees, genital area and lower portion of the abdomen.
The lungs were increased in size and consistency, crepitation was perceived under pressure, the fingerprint of the finger remained after pressure (Fovea) and upon cutting, after compressing, foam appeared. The right lung weighed 850 grams and the left lung weighed 640 g.
After incising the pericardial sac, slight cardiomegaly was observed with a weight of 390 grams. The left ventricle was hypertrophic with a maximum thickness of its free wall of 2 cm. The histopathological analysis of the heart shows chronic ischemic heart disease, on which lies an old infarction and another recent one, 1 to 3 weeks old, in the posterior aspect of the left ventricle.
The thoracic aorta has a large ruptured arteriosclerotic plaque, with intraplaque hemorrhage and thrombotic material adhered below the arch. The endothelium of the abdominal aorta is occupied by coagulated blood material of a reddish color. The liver exhibited a steatotic appearance. Examination of the liver and lung confirms the macroscopic diagnoses of steatosis and pulmonary edema.

In the arterioles responsible for supplying the skeletal muscles of the legs, numerous emboli are seen from ruptured atheroma plaques that produce ischemic necrosis of the muscle fibers.

Histologically, the kidneys present acute tubular necrosis, myoglobinic pigment in tubules and emboli in arterioles resulting from the rupture of atheromatous plaques.