An 80-year-old woman who came to the clinic due to a painless left submandibular tumor that had been developing for 2 months and had experienced progressive growth and increased consistency. It is not accompanied by constitutional syndrome. The patient has kidney stones and high blood pressure as the only history. The physical examination revealed a left submandibular mass approximately 4 cm in diameter, of a hard consistency, adhered to deep planes, which did not cause pain on palpation. No alterations were observed in cervical mobility or in the expression of facial mimicry. On intraoral examination there is no inflammation of the floor of the mouth or Wharton's duct. An ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration aspiration (FNA) was performed, which was reported as carcinoma of undetermined nature. An MRI was requested, the report of which was compatible with a heterogeneous left submandibular mass, with internal necrosis, measuring 3 × 4 × 3 cm, with an imprint on the floor of the mouth, without conclusive signs of infiltration of the suprahyoid musculature and sparing the cortex. mandibular bone.

With the diagnosis of malignant tumor of the submandibular gland, a type III left functional cervical dissection is performed, including the hypoglossal nerve, the digastric muscle and the marginal branch of the left facial nerve, with reaming of the left mandibular medial aspect.
Histological analysis of the specimen shows a neoplastic proliferation of infiltrating limits, which grows forming nests and cords, consisting of cells with broad cytoplasm and plasmacytoid and epithelioid morphology. The nuclei are atypical with moderate pleomorphism, prominent nucleolus and 11 mitoses/10 high power fields. The cells are arranged within a hyalinized stroma. Extensive areas of necrosis and foci of squamous differentiation can be seen. No ductal structures are observed. The immunohistochemical study performed demonstrates positivity of the neoplastic cells for CKAE1/AE3, actin, calponin, p63, S-100 protein and GFAP, while being negative for CEA. The proliferative index (Ki67) is 25%. The tumor is completely resected and the distance to the nearest resection margin is less than 1 mm. Lymph nodes are negative for malignancy. This report is compatible with the diagnosis of myoepithelial carcinoma of the submandibular gland pT3-N0, MX.
It was decided, after a multidisciplinary consensus, to apply postoperative radiotherapy. The total dose of radiotherapy received is 60 Gy, divided into 30 sessions.
The patient is being followed up in outpatient clinics 3 years after the surgical intervention and, after performing serial control MRI and CT scans, no signs of tumor recurrence or metastasis are seen.