Female patient, 57 years old, with no medical history of interest, ex-smoker for 15 years, referred from the Breast Cancer Early Detection Unit for a 3.5 cm nodule in the lower-inner quadrant of the left breast, without palpable axillary lymphadenopathy. . She was diagnosed with infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the left breast with axillary involvement by study with biopsy, MRI and axillary ultrasound.
Neoadjuvant treatment is instituted with a standard chemotherapy regimen with FEC 75 (4 cycles) followed by docetaxel (4 cycles). After treatment, an absence of radiological response was evident and surgery was subsequently performed, performing a left mastectomy and lymphadenectomy of Berg levels I and II.
The definitive pathological diagnosis is infiltrating ductal carcinoma, grade III, 2.6 cm, Her2-neu negative. Estrogen receptors 98%. Progesterone 38%. P53 29%. Ki 67 35%. Her-2 0%. Keratin 56 positive 1/3. EGFR negative. E-Caderin positive 3/3. Androgen negative. BCL2 positive 2/3. It is a B-Ki67 luminal pattern with metastasis in 1/19 lymph nodes.
In the immediate postoperative period, there was slight bleeding externalized by the drainage, and conservative treatment was carried out. On the seventh postoperative day, a discharge of 400 ml was observed through the axillary drainage, with a milky appearance, suggestive of chylous lymphorrhea. The chylous fluid is confirmed by biochemical study (Triglycerides: 800 mg/dl, total cholesterol: 47 mg/dl).
A fat-restricted diet is indicated, advising the ingestion of foods with medium-chain triglycerides and simultaneously administering subcutaneous somatostatin every 8 hours for 10 days. With these measures, the quantity and appearance of the axillary drainage improved and became normal, allowing its removal 20 days postoperatively. In subsequent controls, no other complications were observed, and the patient went on to complete oncological treatment. The patient is asymptomatic and disease-free after 37 months of follow-up.