An 80-year-old patient was admitted for pneumonia in the right lower lobe, with pleural effusion. She had a sudden worsening of her respiratory situation and was admitted to the ICU.
She placed a chest drain, obtaining 2,640 ml of purulent fluid. On the eighth day, the patient began oral tolerance, with a content similar to the diet coming out through the drainage. The suspicion of an esophageal-pleural fistula led to the administration of methylene blue, which was confirmed to be immediately released through the thoracic drainage.
Endoscopy was performed, describing in the distal third, right lateral aspect, a three-centimeter ulceration, covered in fibrin, with a fistulous orifice measuring more than eight millimeters in its lower part. Biopsies taken from the ulcerated area showed superficial gastric mucosa, with mild inflammatory infiltrates and intestinal metaplasia, without histological signs of malignancy. Once the diagnosis of benign esophageal-pleural fistula in relation to Barrett's esophagus was confirmed, a removable "Hanoster" type stent was placed as rescue treatment.

Since leaving the ward, he had feverish spikes, so a CT scan was performed, which confirmed the presence of an abscess in the right lower lobe, so an endothoracic drain was placed, with chocolate-like contents coming out, and the consequent clinical improvement. of the patient.
Methylene blue was administered again, with bluish liquid coming out through the tube. Therefore, given the persistence of the esophago-pleural fistula, it was decided to transfer the patient to the General Surgery service.
In esophagogram: endoprosthesis in the distal third of the esophagus, with contrast leakage in the middle third, and at the distal end, the latter directed in a posterior direction.
The patient underwent surgery, performing a transhiatal esophagectomy plus substernal gastroplasty, with favorable post-operative evolution, confirming the histological study, the benign nature of the ulceration.