We present the case of a three-month-old infant with a one-month history of feeding refusal, nausea, regurgitation and vomiting. For this reason, she was referred from Primary Care to the Emergency Department.
He was a full-term newborn of adequate weight for gestational age, with a normal course of pregnancy in which no polyhydramnios were observed. The neonatal period was uneventful, with adequate psychomotor and weight development until two months of age, when he began to experience the symptoms described.
Upon his arrival to the emergency room, his general condition was evident, with dry mucous membranes, dark eyes, capillary refill lasting more than 2 seconds and skin pallor, with the rest of the physical examination normal. Vital signs were: temperature, 36.6 °C; heart rate, 137 bpm; blood pressure; 88/55 mmHg (p75); O2 saturation, 100%; respiratory rate, 52 rpm; blood glucose, 90 mg/dl. Weight 5.995 kg (P10), height 60.5 cm (P10). He was expanded with physiological saline and a blood test was performed, with a blood count that was normal and biochemistry in which the following stood out: Na 151 mEq/l; K 2.2 mEq/L; Cl 130 mEq/l and in venous blood gas analysis: pH 7.29, pCO2 27 mmHg, bicarbonate 13 mmol/l and ionic calcium 1.74 mg/dl. Findings compatible with a metabolic acidosis with a normal anion gap. A reagent strip was performed on urine from a void with pH 7, density 1015 and negative remainder.
The patient required intravenous fluid therapy with maximum contributions of potassium (80 mEq/l) and bicarbonate (3 mEq/kg/day), and was discharged within a week, maintaining oral treatment with sodium bicarbonate and potassium citrate. The renal ultrasound revealed bilateral papillary hyperechogenicity, compatible with the onset of nephrocalcinosis. Ophthalmological evaluation, bone series and auditory potentials were performed, which were normal.
During follow-up up to nine months of age, the patient is asymptomatic, with improvement in his weight-and-stature development (p25 in weight and p50 in height), so adjustments have been made to the treatment doses based on weight change. . The analysis six months after discharge is shown in Table 2. In the control ultrasound performed six months after discharge, findings consistent with nephrocalcinosis persist.