This was an 11-year-old patient (weight 35 kg) scheduled for bilateral knee tenotomy to correct knee "flex" that prevented him from resting in the supine position. He had been diagnosed with DMD at age 3 through genetic study, and due to the progression of the disease he needed a wheelchair since he was eight. Preoperatively, there was an elevation of transaminases (AST 131 mU.ml-1, ALT 187 mU.ml-1) and CPK 4226 IU/l. The rest of the biochemical control, blood count and coagulation were within normal limits. The chest x-ray revealed an increase in the bronchovascular pattern at the bases. A functional respiratory study could not be performed due to the patient's lack of collaboration, but the last one available (for the 8-year-old) showed a severe restrictive disorder. In the electrocardiogram (ECG), deep Q waves were observed in the left precordial leads, without alterations in repolarization.
The patient was premedicated with 7 mg of midazolam orally. Anesthetic induction was performed after cannulation of a peripheral line with propofol (2 mg.kg-1) and 0.5 µg.kg-1 of remifentanil in a slow bolus. Endotracheal intubation was performed with a 6.5 Fr. caliber flexometallic tube with pneumotamponade after neuromuscular blockade with mivacurium (0.2 mg.kg-1). Anesthetic maintenance was performed with propofol (10-4 mg.kg-1) to achieve a bispectral index (BIS) of 40-60, remifentanil (0.25 µg.kg-1.min-1) and mivacurium (0. 6 mg.kg-1.h-1) with the patient mechanically ventilated with O2-air. With the patient in the lateral decubitus position, before being placed in a prone position to undergo surgery, epidural anesthesia was performed at the level of L4-L5 with an 18G Tuohy needle, through which a catheter (20G) was placed to postsurgical analgesia. 2 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine with vasoconstrictor were administered as a test dose and 12 ml of 0.2% ropivacaine. The intervention was uneventful and the patient was able to be extubated at the end of the surgery, with good ventilatory mechanics. Recovery from the muscle block with mivacurium, monitored with a neurostimulator, was not prolonged and reversal of the muscle block was not necessary. The patient was admitted to the trauma ward, and was monitored by the Pain Unit of our hospital. As post-surgical analgesia, 7 ml.h-1 of 0.18% ropivacaine with 1 µg.ml-1 of fentanyl were administered through the lumbar epidural catheter, achieving adequate analgesia (0 out of 10 on the visual analogue scale), however , eight hours after surgery, they notified the ward because the patient had a complete motor block (Bromage grade 3) with a sensory level at T10, which reverted three hours after reducing the concentration of local anesthetic (LA) to the half. No other adverse events were recorded. Epidural analgesia was effective (VAS < 2) with the new LA concentration. The epidural catheter was removed on the fifth postoperative day.