A 71-year-old woman with no relevant history who, after 6 months of dermatitis on the face, trunk and extremities, was diagnosed in July 2013 by skin biopsy with DM with skin involvement, without reporting muscle weakness. Muscle enzymes CK and aldolase are normal. Positive ANA (1:320) and positive Mi-1:Mi-2 (1:320) antibodies were detected with negative anti-P155/140. Tumor markers and a complete CT scan do not demonstrate the presence of neoplasia. Acute phase reactants are elevated, CRP 44.2 mg/L [0 - 5] and ESR 73 mm/h [0 - 19]. It is treated with prednisone at a dose of 30 mg/24 h in various descending regimens for 4 months. During this period, she progressively began to experience myalgia and muscle weakness that forced her to be bedridden, with fever, dysphagia, and a 10 kg weight loss.
In December 2013 she was admitted due to suspicion of DM with the appearance of myopathy. An electromyogram (EMG), magnetic resonance imaging and muscle biopsy were performed, which confirmed an inflammatory myopathy in the proximal muscles of the extremities. An esophagram confirms significant esophageal motor alteration and delayed gastric emptying. She is diagnosed with DM with muscular and digestive involvement, as well as skin. The lung study and echocardiogram are normal.
The corticosteroid therapy prior to admission is maintained for the first 8 days. Cinitapride is prescribed as a prokinetic. On the ninth day, after confirming the myopathy, azathioprine 50 mg/24h is started. Intravenous (IV) pulses of methylprednisolone are added for 3 days, followed by prednisone 30 mg/24h for 2 weeks (then a descending regimen). On the seventh day after starting azathioprine, GOT/AST 160 U/L [2 - 35] and GPT/ALT 313 U/L [2 - 35] were detected, with previous levels being normal. It was decided to suspend azathioprine due to hepatotoxicity and the pharmacist notified the suspected adverse reaction to the Pharmacovigilance Center. Mycophenolate 500 mg/24h is started, for which the patient signs an informed consent and the documentation for the use of medications in special situations is completed. The dose is increased until reaching 1 g/12h.

After 6 weeks of treatment, she reported improvement in muscle strength, increase in physical activity, significant reduction in dysphagia and dermatitis, with normalization of acute phase reactants and transaminases, continuing with normal CK and aldolase. It was decided to suspend cinitapride and continue with a descending prednisone regimen. After 9 weeks of therapy, he reported hair loss and paresthesia in the lower limbs, which are described as common adverse reactions in the mycophenolate technical information sheet. In week 12, the dose of prednisone is lowered from 10 mg to 7.5 mg/24h. At the 14-week follow-up, the patient described a 10-cm pruritic erythematous plaque similar to those presented at the beginning of the disease. In the analysis, the only change observed is the increase in CRP to 29.2 mg/L. The alopecia stabilizes, the paresthesias disappear and it is decided to return to 10 mg of prednisone every 24 hours. In week 16, the CRP normalized to 4.1 mg/L and the skin condition disappeared, returning to the dose of 7.5 mg/24h of prednisone. At the 20th week control, the CRP remains in range and there are no signs of dermatitis, considering that prednisone therapy 7.5 mg/24h plus 1 g/12h of mycophenolate is safe and effective to control the disease in this patient. .