He was a 30-year-old heterosexual male, with a personal history of poor school performance and an overprotective parenting pattern. He had been in a stable relationship for several years and had a daughter. At the time of the examination, he was awaiting trial for two sexual assaults, between which there was a week of difference, an intimidating instrument (knife) having been used in both and the second of the victims presenting injuries as a result of the resistance he put up. (shoulder dislocation). He had no criminal record.
Imputed facts
In relation to these, he narrates the introduction into his car, under intimidation with a knife, of a stranger “who he liked”, whom he touched and gave her a kiss after convincing him not to go further for her own good. from her daughter; He left her at the door of her house, with threats that he would be able to locate her if she told what happened. After approximately a week, he repeated the same sequence, although this time the victim tried to escape from the car, causing injuries when she was grabbed by the expert. Both sexual assaults coincide with a period of deterioration in the couple's relationship, and in the second of them there was a clear history of frustration related to the failure to meet the expectations of maintaining a sexual relationship with a stranger with whom he had a telephone relationship. , and towards which the expert harbored feelings of incipient infatuation.
Relevant findings in the psychosexual sphere
He highlighted the existence of a low level of sexual activation, as well as a high frequency of practicing different sexual activities (intercourse and masturbation). The expert presented various deviant sexual behaviors, which began with practices with little interaction with the victims (voyeurism with masturbation), gradually producing an increase in interaction, both verbal (obscene compliments) and physical (touching without the possibility of response on the part of the victims), until reaching the facts of which they were accused. Habitual consumer of pornography and occasional prostitution.
Psychopathological findings
No significant alterations were found in axis I. Given that while he was in prison and prior to the forensic medical examination, a diagnosis of mild mental retardation was made by the psychologist of a non-governmental organization, he was referred to the forensic psychologist to support the diagnostic presumption of borderline intelligence with psychometric tests, which were not valid with regard to the calculation of the intelligence quotient (IQ) due to the lack of collaboration of the expert (he presented meta-simulatory behaviors according to the forensic psychological report), reaching the diagnostic conclusion of borderline intelligence based on their adaptive skills, after clinical examination and application of the Support Intensity Scale.
Regarding axis II, the inmate showed typical features of the construct of borderline personality disorder: he verbalized cognitions related to the fear of abandonment by his partner, having developed crude strategies to avoid said abandonment, such as prohibiting his partner. partner of the use of the car to avoid abandonment, or restriction of access to family accounts; He expressed feelings of low self-esteem, identifying its origin in his partner's rejection on a sexual level, but also in his perception of actions aimed at undervaluing him in the eyes of other people; At the same time, he showed an unstable self-image, which oscillated between feelings of high self-worth and feelings of inferiority; little social environment, with interpersonal relationships alternating between idealization and devaluation. High impulsivity manifested in different areas of his private life, as well as significant reactivity of mood.
Furthermore, the inmate verbalized cognitive distortions aimed at minimizing the use of violence against his partner and the victims, even blaming his partner for the alleged acts due to his rejection on a sexual level, and the second victim for his injuries. for having resisted sexual activity by trying to flee; manifested other cognitive distortions about women and their role in society (female role related only to taking care of the home and children, without active participation in the decisions derived from living together as a couple), as well as about sexuality (justification of sexual activity with their partner mediated by violence in the absence of their persistence in refusing to have sexual relations). The functional analysis of the narrated sexual behaviors, as well as sexual assaults, showed a consistent association between their practice and feelings of sexual frustration and the cognitions associated with it (feelings of low self-worth and thoughts related to abandonment).