Newborn, 29 days old and weighing 4,100 kg, taken by his parents to the health center for evaluation of a facial rash. When examining him, his pediatrician observed tachycardia and tachypnea, verifying by pulse oximetry a heart rate of 255 bpm and Sat O2: 97%, so she referred him to the hospital. Until then he tolerated the diet well and had good weight gain.
The pregnancy and delivery occurred normally, with a full-term Apgar score of 8/9, a birth weight of 3,250 g, height of 51.5 cm, and head circumference of 31.8 cm. No relevant family history was found.
Upon arrival at the emergency room, he had a good general appearance with good color, tachypnea and subcostal indrawing, a heart rate greater than 250 beats per minute (bpm) with an O2 Sat of 97%. Within a few minutes he had a worsening of his general condition, coldness and acral cyanosis and facial paleness. The ECG showed supraventricular tachycardia morphology with narrow QRS complexes, retrograde P waves and a heart rate of 288 bpm.

Vagal maneuvers (ice on the face) are performed without effect, so 1 intravenous (IV) bolus of 50 µg/kg of adenosine is administered without response and 3 minutes later a second bolus of 100 µg/kg, the tachycardia subsides and reverting to sinus rhythm with a frequency of 168 ppm and presenting improvement in skin color and general appearance.
Since in our environment we have 2 ml Adenocor® ampoules with 6 mg of drug, it was necessary to make dilutions. In our case we took 0.5 ml (1.5 mg) diluted with 14.5 ml of physiological saline, achieving a concentration of 100 µg/ml. An initial dose of 2 ml (50 µg/kg) is therefore administered and in the absence of response a second dose of 4 ml (100 µg/kg).
After the resolution of the tachycardia, the patient is transferred to the referral hospital, to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) for follow-up and study. During the following 24 hours, he presented a new episode of supraventricular tachycardia, also resolved with adenosine, and subsequently remained asymptomatic. Normal echocardiography was reported. To date there has been no recurrence, maintaining prophylactic treatment with propranolol.