Seven-year-old girl born in Spain and without previous pathology who was referred to the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Unit due to painful left submandibular lymphadenopathy of one month's duration, without response to treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and oral anti-inflammatory drugs.
The patient had not had fever, night sweats, or weight loss. She was not vaccinated with BCG. For one month a year she visits Morocco, where she has contact with animals (sheep, lambs) and consumes unpasteurized dairy.
On physical examination, she presented a left submandibular cluster of lymphadenopathy, painful on palpation, hard, non-rolling or adherent, the largest of the lymphadenopathy measuring 2 × 2 cm. The rest of the physical examination and medical history did not show any pathological findings.
Given the lack of response to treatment and taking into account the epidemiological data, the tuberculin test was performed, which was positive, with a 10 mm induration with a vesicular pattern at 72 hours. Chest x-ray and abdominal ultrasound were normal.

Brucella, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and cytomegalovirus (CMV) serologies were negative. The analysis showed a normal blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 47 mm/hour and the interferon-gamma release assays (IGRA) (QuantiFERON(r)) was positive, with a value of 10.15 (normal range: 0- 0.35).
A fine-needle aspiration puncture (FNA) of the lymphadenopathy was performed, which showed a thick, whitish material. Culture and cytological study revealed a pattern of necrotizing granulomatous lymphadenitis.
Given the patient's limited involvement and the suspicion of tuberculous adenitis, initial home treatment with isoniazid, rifampicin and pyrazinamide was prescribed, pending culture of the sample obtained by FNAC. The culture was positive for M. bovis, presenting an antibiogram with resistance to pyrazinamide and sensitivity to streptomycin, ethambutol, isoniazid and rifampicin. For this reason, pyrazinamide was replaced by ethambutol for two months, subsequently continuing with isoniazid and rifampicin until the end of six months. Mycobacterial cultures in gastric juices were negative. During that time, the patient attended periodic check-ups at the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Service, in which a good clinical evolution and complete resolution of the infectious process was confirmed.