A 58-year-old male presented to his referral hospital in 1999, presenting a history of chronic intractable diarrhea, accompanied by weight loss. The patient was diagnosed with CD and was placed on a gluten-free diet. He had no other history of interest and the physical examination was negative.
The family history highlighted that the patient's sister and two nephews also had CD, recently diagnosed, with a good response to the gluten-free diet.
The hematological and biochemical analytical data carried out on the patient, including thyroid hormones, vitamin B-2 and calcium levels, as well as the determination of fat in feces and serological analyzes were normal.
He had negative anti-gliadin and anti-transglutaminase antibodies and weakly positive anti-endomysial antibodies (1/10) and positive anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic (1/80) and positive anti-smooth muscle antibodies (1/80). HLA typing was positive for DQ2 (HLA-DQA1* 0502 and DQB1* 0201). The D-xylose absorption test was normal.
The histological study of the duodenal biopsies showed total villous atrophy (Marsh grade 3c) and an important submucosal inflammatory infiltrate made up of lymphocytes.
The patient was diagnosed with CD and was treated with a gluten-free diet. He presented a good clinical digestive response, with disappearance of diarrhea and significant weight gain to his usual level. A new duodenal biopsy performed one year after diagnosis showed significant histological improvement, with mild villous atrophy persisting (Marsh type 3a) with a marked decrease in the lymphocytic inflammatory infiltrate at the level of the duodenal submucosa.
Eighteen months after diagnosis, the patient began to experience frequent falls while walking without associated loss of consciousness due to abnormal movements in his right leg. He was conscious and oriented and eye movements and cranial nerve examination were normal. He had mild dysarthria and associated hyperreflexia, along with spontaneous myoclonus and myoclonus provoked by tactile stimuli in the right leg and foot. Walking was seriously compromised due to the presence of myoclonus, requiring help to walk while leaning on another person to avoid falling. His muscle tone and strength were preserved. The neuropsychological examination showed normal levels of language and verbal memory, with slight impairment of visual memory. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) were normal. Electroencephalogram (EEG) showed normal background brain bioelectrical activity. Small friction on the sole of the foot caused electrical discharges in the form of spikes-waves in the central regions of the brain.

Somatosensory evoked potentials provoked increased responses, which were more striking in the right hemibody. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) study, which included the determination of oligoclonal bands and multiple serological analysis, was negative.
The study of circulating antibodies carried out using indirect immunofluorescence techniques, using human brain, cerebellar and pons tissue as a substrate, with progressive serum dilutions obtained from the patient himself, showed a strong positive staining (1:800) for the pericanal buttons. synaptic neurons surrounding Purkinje cells and for isolated axons of the brainstem.

No positive staining was observed in the cytoplasm of Purkinje cells. For these studies, serum from healthy subjects and celiac patients without associated neurological involvement were taken as controls.
A diagnosis of cortical myoclonus was made, and treatment with clonazepam and piracetan was instituted, obtaining a slight improvement in the myoclonus. His neurological illness progressively worsened. After one year of follow-up, the patient also presented marked dysarthria. The dystonia in the right extremities was very marked. The patient was unable to walk due to ataxia and myoclonus in both lower extremities. He presented reflex myoclonus in both arms, with less intensity than in the legs, as well as behavioral alterations, with episodes of disorientation and mental confusion that required treatment with neuroleptics. Verbal memory and language were preserved. The EEG continued to show normal background bioelectrical activity. Treatment with azathioprine-type immunosuppressants was initiated at a dose of 100 mg/day for 6 months, without obtaining a response. Two sessions of plasmapheresis were performed. This treatment did not modify the myoclonus and only a slight improvement in cognitive functions was observed. The patient's family did not want to continue with this treatment modality. The patient died 2 years after the appearance of myoclonus, due to aspiration pneumonia, with severe associated neurological and general deterioration.