32-year-old primigravida, 38 weeks gestation, admitted to hospital due to rupture of membranes.
His personal history included suffering from Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome, affecting the right lower limb, in which an increase in its diameter and length could be observed, with the presence of a flat angioma at the level of the anteroexternal aspect of the thigh. , striking venous varicosities, both at the level of the thigh and the right leg, and cutaneous trophic disorders that mainly affected the distal area of ​​the leg.
Under follow-up by the vascular surgery service, she did not receive any medical treatment, except for local topical products to care for the skin disorders on her right leg.
She provided a report that described the injuries the patient presented; It also excluded involvement of the contralateral lower limb, as well as the existence of vascular malformations at other levels. She had not presented any complications as a result of her underlying illness, except for the skin condition due to circulatory stasis.
The patient requested epidural analgesia for delivery; At that time, she had 3 cm of cervical dilation, there was effective uterine dynamics and the fetus appeared reactive, with no evidence of fetal distress. The laboratory data showed a blood count with platelets 136,000, hemoglobin 10.9, the rest of the parameters being normal; The coagulation study and basic biochemistry were normal.
After signing the consent and explaining the procedure, it was decided to place a 20G epidural catheter using an 18G Tuohy needle, at the level of the L3-L4 space, and the technique was performed without incident.
Test doses of 5 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine with epinephrine and an initial bolus of 8 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine without vasoconstrictor and 100 mg of fentanyl were administered without incident. A perfusion of 0.0625% bupivacaine with 2 µg.ml-1 of fentanyl was prescribed, between 15-20 ml.h-1, achieving very satisfactory analgesia until the end of labor.
An eutocic delivery was achieved, which required episiotomy, and the product of the pregnancy was a male newborn weighing 2,695 g, with an Apgar test of 9-10.
In the immediate postpartum period, the epidural catheter was removed without incident.
At 12 hours after delivery, and taking into account the high risk of thromboembolic phenomena, low molecular weight heparin was administered s.c., prophylactically according to obstetrics indication, without incident. This treatment was maintained until the patient was discharged, on the 3rd day postpartum.
The patient was evaluated 24 hours after delivery and telephoned a week after hospital discharge, without any incidence and/or complications related to epidural analgesia.
The degree of satisfaction with the analgesic technique used was optimal.