A 70-year-old man was admitted due to deterioration in general condition, asthenia, anorexia, and weight loss for 1 month. Having undergone surgery for prostate adenocarcinoma, he subsequently received several sessions of radiotherapy (total dose 70 Gy), the last of them 12 months before his admission, for treatment with hormone therapy. Since beginning radiotherapy treatment, the patient reports a change in intestinal rhythm, with alternating diarrhea and constipation and frequent cramping pains, accompanied by urgency and defecatory urgency. From the physical examination, the only thing worth mentioning is a soft, depressible, non-painful abdomen, with very increased non-pathological sounds, without obstructive signs, masses or megalias. No lymphadenopathy, fever or other notable findings. The analysis revealed leukocytosis of 21,720 /mm3 (17.2% neutrophils, 4.1% lymphocytes, 2.4% monocytes and 75.3% eosinophils), ESR 60 mm in the first hour, CRP 38.80 mg/mm3. L, ferritin 481 ng/mL, rheumatoid factor 800 as acute phase reactants, hypoalbuminemia of 2.2 g/dL without alteration of other malabsorption markers. Transaminases and cholestasis enzymes within normality. Anti-nuclear, anti-mitochondrial and anti-smooth muscle antibodies were negative and PSA was 0 ng/mL. The parasitological study in feces in 3 conveniently collected samples was also negative. The chest x-ray did not show significant alterations. A colonoscopy was performed, revealing the mucosa of the 30 cm explored to have a tubular fibrotic appearance with erythematous dots, with regular fibrotic stenosis at that level that prevented progression. Multiple biopsies were taken that showed nonspecific acute and chronic inflammation, without evidence of the presence of eosinophils at any level, with the presumptive diagnosis being actinic colitis.

Abdominopelvic CT with intravenous contrast showed diffuse thickening of loops of small intestine at the level of the distal jejunum and ileum, without other alterations. No lymphadenopathy at any level or abdominal masses were evident, with radical prostatectomy and thickening of the perirectal fat, bladder wall and rectum in probable relation to previous radiotherapy.
Due to the alterations in the loops, an intestinal transit was performed that revealed a slight thickening of the conniving valves at the level of the jejunum, with loops of pelvic ileum of reduced caliber, with their separation from both the jejunum and the rest of the ileum due to parietal thickening. , all of this compatible as the first possibility with actinic enteritis, and the last ileal loop being of normal caliber with preserved folds.

Given that the examinations carried out pointed towards radiotherapy as the origin of the abdominal condition, and other causes of secondary peripheral eosinophilia having been reasonably ruled out, treatment with corticosteroids was empirically prescribed (methylprednisolone 1 mg/kg/day, for 1 week, with a subsequent regimen descending for 3 months) and parenteral nutrition, given the progressive deterioration of the patient's general condition. This treatment completely resolved both the clinical picture and the analytical alterations, which ruled out the central origin of the eosinophilia.
One week after the start of treatment, the patient was discharged with a blood test that showed 5,280 leukocytes/mm3 with 1% eosinophils, ESR 27 mm in the first hour and CRP 0.76 mg/L, with the diagnosis by exclusion. of actinic enteritis and secondary peripheral eosinophilia. He remains asymptomatic and has normal analytical controls.