An 87-year-old woman suffers a right frontal TBI after accidentally falling in a nursing home. His known medical history included mitral valve disease, episodes of paroxysmal atrial flutter and hemodynamic angina, and deep vein thrombosis with pulmonary thromboembolism. She was following medication treatment with Sintrom®, Acuprel®, Nitroplast®, Trangorex® and Diluton®.
As a result of the TBI, a blunt wound occurs in the right ciliary region that is repaired by suture. The next day, in a period of less than twelve hours, after starting her usual activities (bathroom and breakfast), she experiences a progressive deterioration in her level of consciousness and anisocoria with a mydriatic right pupil, for which she is transferred to the emergency department of the hospital. local hospital. On admission she noted Glasgow 8-9 and anisocoria. A cranial CT scan is performed (without contrast) and is reported as "chronic SDH with rebleeding" that covers the right frontal, temporal and parietal regions; supracallosal and transtentorial herniation; and subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in the right hemisphere. After her neurosurgical evaluation, it was decided not to intervene and to transfer her back to her residence, where she died fourteen hours later.

During the process of removing her body we found the body of a woman who represents the aforementioned age. Numerous bruises are seen in different evolutionary stages. Of note, due to its relationship with the events, is the presence of a wound sutured with four stitches in the right ciliary region along with multiple bruises of different colors (reddish and bluish) close to it.
A judicial autopsy is performed thirty-one hours after death. In the internal habit, at the thoracoabdominal level, various macroscopic findings of interest are observed. The heart weighs 250 g and presents calcified atheromatous plaques in the anterior descending and circumflex coronary arteries that reduce the lumen by >90%, scars from old infarcts on the posterior wall of the left ventricle and papillary muscle, and calcification of the mitral annulus.
In the cranial cavity, right frontotemporoparietal HSD appears, consisting of dark clotted blood without evidence of associated fractures. The brain is fixed in formalin for 24 days, before completing its macroscopic study, showing the following findings: weight 1018 g and in addition to the SDH described, right subarachnoid hemorrhage is externally visualized; Right transtentorial herniation groove and hemorrhage in the midbrain. In coronal sections we observed flattening of the right hemisphere, especially the frontal lobe, associated with a subdural hematoma 15 mm thick and gelatinous in appearance in the center, with no evidence of neomembrane; deviation of the midline to the left, with collapse of the right lateral ventricle and dilation of the left; supracallosal herniation and foci of hemorrhage in the right frontal white matter, corpus callosum, right thalamus and right frontal cortex. The midbrain shows extensive hemorrhage in the midline, right paramedial portion and dorsolateral quadrants and, in the pons, foci of hemorrhage are recognized in the floor of the IV ventricle and cerebellar peduncles.

Samples of subdural hematoma, cortex and white matter were taken from the right parasagittal frontal region, lenticular nucleus, internal capsule, thalamus, corpus callosum, hippocampus, midbrain, cerebellar peduncles, pons and medulla for microscopic analysis.
The microscopic study of the subdural hematoma shows that it is made up of well-preserved red blood cells in the periphery and acellular proteinaceous material in the central areas. There are no hemosiderophages (Perls stain is negative) or signs of organization on the side of the arachnoid (the dura mater was tightly adhered to the cranial calvaria and was not removed for microscopic study). Given the diagnostic disparity between the CT scan and the autopsy regarding the date of the SDH, the preparations corresponding to the hematoma are reexamined and arachnoid lining around the hematoma is identified in some areas.

In the brain parenchyma adjacent to the hematoma, glial cells with early reactive changes are identified (globoid morphology with eosinophilic cytoplasm) and edema is observed around the hemorrhage foci described. In the trunk, occasional axonal balls and spongiosis are observed around the hemorrhages.

Other neuropathological findings, compatible with the patient's age, were the presence of numerous senile plaques throughout the cortex, microcalcifications in the basal ganglia and hippocampus, and neurons with granulovacuolar and neurofibrillary degeneration in the hippocampus.
The chemical-toxicological analysis carried out at the INTCF (Department of Madrid) on a blood sample was negative for the toxins investigated (barbiturates, benzodiazepines, analgesics -paracetamol, metamizole, tramadol, salicylates-, antidepressants, phenothiazines and analogues, sulfonylurea-type antidiabetics , non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, diuretics, xantham bases, antiparkinsonian drugs, antihistamines, antihypertensives, antiplatelet agents, benzamides, opiates derived from morphine and ethyl alcohol).
Thus, we consider that the sequence of the lesions or pathology found would be the following: elderly person with a history of heart disease mentioned above, being treated with oral anticoagulants (Sintrom®), suffers from mild right frontoparietal trauma, which causes a rupture of the pre-existing arachnoid cyst and therefore an acute SDH, leading to intracranial hypertension, nailing and death.