A 27-year-old woman with the onset of the disease two years ago in the form of severe pancolitis and subsequent corticosteroid dependence, on maintenance treatment with azathriopine and oral mesalazine.
She was admitted for abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea and headache accompanied by motor deficit in the left lower limb.
Physical examination: diffuse abdominal pain on deep palpation. Rectal examination with fresh blood remains. Discrete functional impotence in the left lower limb and paresthesias in both upper limbs.
The analysis on admission highlights hemoglobin of 11 g/dl, ESR 78 mg/l and minimal enzyme mobilization (GOT 74 UI/l, GPT 96 UI/l, GGT 182 UI/l, FA 148 UI/l).
Assessed by Neurology, they indicate brain computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), showing thrombosis of the longitudinal venous sinus. In rectosigmoidoscopy: severe involvement of the mucosa from the anal margin. Biopsies compatible with active ulcerative colitis, ruling out cytomegalovirus infection. We began treatment with intravenous corticosteroids at full doses (1 mg/kg/day) and low molecular weight heparin, with progressive normalization of bowel movements.
After a week of hospitalization, increase in abdominal perimeter with semiology of ascites and neurological deterioration (myoclonus in lower limbs, decreased visual acuity), accompanied by increased cytolysis (GOT 600 IU/l, GPT 463 IU/l) and coagulopathy. Abdominal echo-Doppler was performed: hepatomegaly. 9.5 mm portal capturing Doppler only in its right branch. Prominent hepatic artery. Suprahepatic with minimal flow uptake, flattened. Echogenic content in the lower cava. Ascites.
The study is expanded by abdominal CT and angio-MRI: decreased intrahepatic cava caliber with image of intraluminal thrombus. Loss of signal intensity of the suprahepatic cells throughout their entire length. Permeable portal. Hepatomegaly. Ascites.

Other causes of liver disease are ruled out and a diagnostic paracentesis is performed (leukocytes 20, glucose 86, proteins 1.8, albumin 1.4, ABG 1. Culture negative. Cytology negative). Study of thrombophilia with relative deficiency of hepatic synthesis factors (factor V 36.63%, VII 21%), without primary procoagulant disorder (antiphospholipid antibody, Ham test and Leyden factor V, negative. Prothrombin and methylenetetrahydrofolate reducatase, homocysteine, antithrombin III, protein C and S, normal).
With suspicion of Budd-Chiari syndrome, treatment with sodium heparin is started at full doses. Clinical deterioration continued on consecutive days, with tense ascites and severe coagulopathy (prothrombin activity of 38%).
After a multidisciplinary assessment, the patient was transferred to another center to attempt placement of a percutaneous intrahepatic portosystemic shunt system, since we were informed of the need to perform joint fibrinolysis due to associated portal thrombosis. The subsequent evolution is torpid with the appearance of hemorrhagic complications at different levels, highlighting a massive cerebral hemorrhage and eventual death of the patient.