A 5-year-old male with an unremarkable personal history and adequate pediatric monitoring. The parents only emphasize that he was a child who did not eat much. A week before the events, he presented an upper respiratory tract cold without fever or other associated signs. The parents reported that he also had non-specific abdominal discomfort, accompanied by increased intestinal sounds and a feeling of nausea without vomiting. He is evaluated by his local pediatrician, who does not see any specific pathology and prescribes a soft diet. At 0 o'clock on the day of death, the child wakes up with non-focused abdominal pain. In the course of the following hours he has a feeling of nausea and several episodes of vomiting, first of food and finally of mucus without blood or bilious traces. At 5:00 a.m. they noticed that he was weak and cold and they gave him a hot bath, checking in the bath that he did not respond to stimuli. The assistance of an emergency team is requested, which finds him in cardiorespiratory arrest and begins CPR maneuvers without success.
A judicial autopsy is performed. This is a normal male child, 1.17 meters tall, with no signs of obesity or malnutrition, with pale skin and mucous membranes. A complete autopsy is performed with opening of the three cavities and the anterior cervical plane, following the recommendations of the Council of Europe [1]. No significant pathological alterations or developmental anomalies were observed.
He highlights during the autopsy in the examination of the abdominal cavity a collection of serohematic fluid in an amount of approximately 0.5 liters. The stomach has few food remains without traces of blood, coffee grounds or bilious remains. The duodenum has preserved walls and normal intestinal papilla content. About 20 cm from the duodenal-jejunal angle, the color of the intestinal walls turns dark red, maintaining this color change up to about 5 cm from the ileo-cecal valve. This last segment of the ileum is clearly narrowed with fibrous changes. Inside the segment of small intestine with parietal changes, blood-like content is found in an approximate amount of 1.5 liters.

The position of the intestinal loops is altered by the presence of an anomaly in the closure of the mesentery of the cecum. This has an eyelet of about 3 cm in diameter located immediately next to the cecum, through which the extensive passage of the loops of the small intestine and part of the descending colon can be seen, which is dilated and lateralized to the right and interrupted in its path through the passage through the buttonhole, continuing towards the rectum from said buttonhole.

The cause of death is estimated to be due to hemorrhagic shock secondary to mechanical obstruction and necrosis of the small intestine due to transmesocolic hernia with internal herniation of the small intestine and large intestine.