Seven-year-old girl who went to the emergency room in the spring due to an episode of generalized complex crisis with disconnection from the environment and falling to the ground while walking, along with hypertonia, hypertonia, salivation and movements of the lip corners lasting about three minutes, with spontaneous recovery. . The previous days the girl had presented symptoms of myalgia, headache and fever of up to 39 ° C, but she had already been afebrile for 24 hours.
She was a girl with no relevant physiological history: pregnancy, childbirth and perinatal period without interest, she also did not have any pathological history of interest and as a family history, only maternal treatment with lithium for bipolar disorder of years of evolution. When the patient arrived at the emergency room, the patient was in a post-critical state with a Glasgow score of 10, but the rest of the examination, both neurological and systemic, was normal. The blood analysis stood out in the biochemistry and the blood count:
• Biochemistry:
— Glutamic-oxalolacetic transaminase (GOT): 93 IU/l.
— Glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (GPT): 44 IU/l.
— C-reactive protein (CRP): 2 mg/l.
• Hemogram:
— Activated aspect leukocytes: 6000 (N: 30% L: 66% M: 4%).
— Platelets 125,000.
— Normal red series.
Given the symptoms of afebrile seizure, she decided to admit her to complete the study. Two hours after admission, he had a new seizure that subsided with the administration of intravenous midazolam at 0.15 mg/kg, but he suffered respiratory arrest requiring T-piece ventilation, so it was decided to admit him to care. intensive surveillance and close monitoring.
Upon her arrival to the intensive care unit, she was in a post-critical state, with a Glasgow score of 7 and the rest of her vital signs normal except for an axillary temperature in this case of 38 ° C. The neurological examination revealed marked hyperreflexia of the lower limbs, with negative meningeal signs. An urgent cranial computed tomography (CT), lumbar puncture, urine toxicants and lithemia (due to maternal history) were performed, with normal results. An urgent electroencephalogram (EEG) was performed where the activity compatible with meningoencephalitis was reported as global slowing. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) serology was obtained for enterovirus and herpes virus, both of which were negative. Serologies are also obtained for multiple agents such as toxoplasma, rubella, lues, herpes simplex 1 and 2, varicella-zoster virus, Mycoplasma, adenovirus, mumps, parvovirus, measles, Coxsackie, ECHO virus and Borrelia, also negative.
In the following hours after admission, the patient presented episodes of agitation with drowsiness and again had two generalized convulsive episodes, so maintenance levetiracetam was started at 40 mg/kg/day, after a bolus of 20 mg/kg, together with with prophylactic acyclovir at 60 mg/kg/day, despite negative serology. An urgent brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was requested with normal results and no bleeding or hyperdensity lesions observed.
Given the history of myalgia and fever in the previous days and the poor recovery of the neurological symptoms, it was decided to determine influenza A antigens in the nasal exudate, which was positive, so treatment was started with oseltamivir 5 mg/kg/day, which It was maintained for a total of five days, and acyclovir was suspended. The patient progressively improved, but suffered a new seizure episode and it was decided to extend serology to negative cytomegalovirus (CMV), Ebstein-Barr virus (EBV), herpes and influenza A, and a repeat brain MRI was performed, which remained normal. Oligoclonal bands are requested in CSF that are negative and the study of autoimmunity with anti-DNA, anti-Ro, anti-La, anti-histone, anti-Sm, anti-RNP, anti-SCL70, anti-Jo, anticytoplasmic antibodies of neutrophils (ANCA) negative. Valproic acid was associated at a dose of 40 mg/kg/day, completely subsiding the seizures.
The patient had five seizure episodes in total and upon discharge an improvement in the EEG was observed, although not complete normality. Treatment was continued with valproic acid 40 mg/kg/day and levetiracepam 60 mg/kg/day.
Currently, the patient is undergoing follow-up in Neuropediatric consultations, now without anticonvulsant medication, and remains asymptomatic, with a normal EEG at the last visit.