A 60-year-old man presented for consultation in January 2009 due to episodes of occasional macroscopic hematuria of two years' duration. After 10 months from the first episode, he began to experience frequency and dysuria, so 2 months later an ultrasound study was performed which showed thickening of the right bladder wall that caused ureterohydronephrosis. An extension study was performed using thoraco-abdominal CT and bone scintigraphy, showing no lesions suggestive of metastasis and confirming the ultrasound findings. In February 2009, he received surgical treatment by TUR of the bladder with a diagnosis of plasmacytoid carcinoma of the bladder with invasion of the muscular layer propria and presence of foci of lymphovascular embolization, for which a radical cysto-prostatectomy with ileal diversion was performed. without incident on March 27, 2009.
The pathological report revealed an atypical epithelial neoformation of diffuse growth with some nests or cords, made up of small cells, scant cytoplasm and a large, pleomorphic and polylobulated nucleus. In addition, some areas were observed where the nuclei were more pleomorphic, polylobulated, large and very hyperchromatic, compared to the rest of the tumor population. Figures of both typical and atypical mitosis as well as apoptosis were frequent. The neoplastic cells infiltrated the bladder wall, reaching the muscular layer propria. The cytoplasmic immunohistochemical study was positive in 100% for cytokeratin-7 and in 70% for cytokeratin-20 and diffuse high molecular weight cytoketatin. The final diagnosis was poorly differentiated, high-grade urothelial carcinoma, plasmacytoid cell variant.

The patient was then referred to the Oncology department and began adjuvant chemotherapy treatment with Cisplatin and Gemcitabine (4 cycles), which concluded in August 2009.
In March 2010, in a control examination and the patient being asymptomatic, lesions suggestive of metastases in the spine were observed, so an MRI of the spine was performed in which possible metastases were reported at the level of D3, D8, D9, D10. and L1. Bone scintigraphy and PET-CT were performed, which were inconclusive, so a follow-up follow-up was recommended in three months. In this control, growth of the already known bone lesions that were biopsied was observed, but they were not conclusive of malignancy.
In September 2010, the PET-CT was repeated, showing no signs of pathological bone uptake, but multiple lymph node uptake in the left axillary, perivascular mediastinal, subcarinal and internal mammary regions, as well as at the retroperitoneal level. A spinal fine needle puncture was performed again, which was reported as a metastatic lesion compatible with a plasmacytoid urothelial tumor. In addition, a biopsy of mammary lymph nodes was performed, which were also reported as compatible with metastatic lesions originating from the plasmacytoid urothelial tumor.
At that time, a new line of chemotherapy treatment with Paclitaxel and Carboplatin was started, on a three-week schedule with a total of 6 cycles, which concluded in January 2011. Halfway through the chemotherapy treatment, a new control CT scan was performed in which the disease remained. stabilized.
On February 17, 2011, a reassessment CT scan revealed moderate-severe right ureterohydronephrosis due to a nodular image protruding into the ureteral lumen suggestive of a new tumor lesion. In addition, he had functional atrophy of the contralateral kidney with an increase in plasma creatinine up to 2.9 ng/mL. It was decided to place a right percutaneous nephrostomy with placement of a double J ureteral catheter via an antegrade approach. During this admission he suffered an inferoposterior and right ventricular AMI treated effectively by primary angioplasty.
Finally, in mid-March 2011, the patient died.