We present a case of an 18-year-old male referred to the 12 de Octubre Hospital by SAMUR, after suffering a bull horn wound in the left cervicofacial region during the bull runs of San Sebastián de Los Reyes in August 2005. Transfer is imminent. to the operating room, where the correct orotracheal intubation that had been performed on site by the health personnel of the bullring is evident. The absence of respiratory and cardiovascular alterations is verified, as well as a stable hemodynamic situation.
Next, under general anesthesia, a regulated tracheostomy and canalization of the corresponding central and peripheral lines is performed. Subsequently, an initial and diagnostic examination is carried out, where an incised and anfractuous wound is evident from the high left supraclavicular region to the ipsilateral labial commissure. The existence of a fracture of the right mandibular body, a comminuted fracture of the left mandibular angle, dental avulsion of the incisal sector of the upper jaw, as well as severe laceration of the lingual muscles and floor of the mouth were observed. Likewise, an exposure of the left jugular-carotid bundle is observed, verifying its total integrity. Interdental suture is performed at the fracture sites and adjacent soft tissues, with the aim of provisionally restoring the anatomy, and the patient is transferred to the Radiology Service to perform a diagnostic craniofacial CT and with the aim of ruling out the existence of central nervous system and associated cervical injuries. Subsequently, once in the operating room, direct laryngoscopy is performed, which excludes the presence of laryngoesophageal lesions. Meticulous washing is performed with a surgical brush and antiseptic solution of the entire oral cavity and affected tissues. Tetanus vaccine and gamma globulin were administered, and intravenous systemic treatment was initiated with amoxilin-clavulanic acid and metronidazole.

After correct exposure of the fracture foci at the level of the right mandibular body and left mandibular angle, favored by the characteristics of the wound itself, reduction and osteosynthesis is performed using 2.4 Synthes® mandibular reconstruction plates, given the presence of comminution in one of them and the high potential for infection of the surgical bed. The remaining root remains in the upper incisal sector are extracted and the corresponding bone regularization is carried out. Suturing and anatomical restoration of the cervical muscles, floor of the mouth and tongue are performed. Microsurgical anastomosis of the right mental and left lingual nerves was performed. Suturing of the skin and oral mucosa is performed. Subsequently, the patient is transferred to the ICU-Politrauma Service where he remains for 36 hours, presenting no neurological or systemic complications during this time. After referral to the ward, antibiotic treatment continues for 10 days, with daily wound dressings with antiseptic solution, both intraoral and cutaneous. No infectious pathology was evident in said territory, presenting a favorable subsequent evolution, and he was discharged on the eleventh day.