A 77-year-old man was referred to the hospital emergency department from his health center for evaluation of hematemesis. As a personal history, the patient reported upper digestive bleeding two years earlier, in the context of taking aspirin due to a catarrhal process, as well as repeated renoureteral crisis (RUC) and asthma. No further information regarding his personal background was available at the time. He was taking inhaled anti-inflammatory-bronchodilator treatment; By his own will, the patient had recently discontinued the usual treatment with omeprazole. Diagnosed three days before CRU at his health center for low back pain with a colicky profile radiating to the left lower quadrant (LAC), he had received intramuscular diclofenac and aspirin as needed, with partial relief. Given the presentation of hematemesis, he was referred for evaluation.
In the Emergency Department, the patient reports, in addition to said radiating lumbar pain, which he recognizes as having similar characteristics to previous CRU, the presentation in the last eight hours of heartburn, as well as tremor when getting out of bed and instability, which It has caused a fall and nasal trauma. Likewise, he had presented three bloody vomits during this period. The physical examination revealed good general condition, BP of 70/50 mm Hg with normal capillary refill, HR of 90 bpm, BP of 36º C; nauseous, with paleness concomitant to nausea, but normally colored at baseline; wound on the bridge of the nose with traces of bleeding in the nostrils and traces of “coffee grounds” in the corners of the mouth; abdomen painful on deep palpation in CII, without signs of peritoneal irritation or apparent masses and digital rectal examination negative for blood and hair. Samples were extracted for analysis and cross-matching tests and serum therapy was started through two peripheral venous lines, which managed to raise the blood pressure levels without normalizing them. In the analysis, Hb, 12.9 g/dL, Hct. 36.1%, leukocytes 27,500/µL with 87% normal neutrophils, platelets and coagulation; urea 52 mg/dL, creatinine 2.86 g/dL; normal rest. Given this situation of hemodynamic instability and hematemesis in a patient with a history of upper gastrointestinal bleeding and current treatment with potentially gastro-injurious drugs, urgent endoscopy was requested.
Immediate endoscopy revealed an esophagus with a clearly ischemic-looking mucosa from 30 cm and necrotic up to 38 cm, as well as a normal fundus, gastric body, incisura and antrum, with some minimal blood remains. During the endoscopy, the patient went into cardiorespiratory arrest due to pulseless electrical activity. Resuscitation maneuvers were unsuccessful and the patient died. The autopsy revealed acute erosive necrotizing esophagitis in the distal 14 cm and aortic arteriosclerosis, predominantly abdominal and in the iliac bifurcation, with a saccular aneurysm in the abdominal aorta measuring 13 cm in length and 8 cm in diameter, ruptured, and massive retroperitoneal hemorrhage of approximately 3,000 cc. , and extension to the peritoneal cavity.