A 61-year-old woman with multiple previous hospital admissions due to episodes of digestive bleeding, with a history of mitral valve disease with prosthetic valve replacement and being treated with acenocoumarol. In April 2011, she was admitted for intestinal bleeding of unknown origin and severe iron deficiency anemia. A gastroscopy and capsule endoscopy were performed without significant findings, after which it was decided to reduce the INR range to 2.5-3. Two months later, she presented a new episode of intestinal bleeding, after which a capsule endoscopy was performed again in which the existence of intestinal angiodysplasias in the duodenal antrum, proximal jejunum and terminal ileum was observed, with no evidence of bleeding due to another cause. She subsequently had three admissions for the same reason, requiring multiple units (U) of concentrated red blood cells. Oral enteroscopy was performed up to the middle jejunum, during which no existence of angiodysplasias was observed, making it impossible to assess the existence of ileal angiodysplasias.
At the last admission she had a hemoglobin of 10.5 g, with a hematocrit of 0.340 L/L and a mean corpuscular volume of 25.7 pg. After this new episode, and the bleeding episodes persisted, with no clear lesions being observed in which to perform other measures such as electrofulguration or surgery, it was decided to use thalidomide, in a dose of 50 mg daily, as a drug for compassionate use, after the handwritten authorization of the patient. For three months the patient was asymptomatic, with hemoglobin levels of 124 g/L and a negative fecal occult blood test maintained over time.
After this period, she was admitted due to a significant deterioration in her general condition, with dyspnea on minimal exertion, orthopnea, malleolar edema and no chest pain. An urgent echocardiography was requested, which was reported as severe pulmonary hypertension with a PSAP (pulmonary artery systolic pressure) of 100mmHg, (prior to the start of treatment with thalidomide, the patient had a PSAP of 26mmHg measured by ultrasound). study to rule out pulmonary thromboembolism, with both the D-dimer and the angiographic tomography being negative.
There was no evidence of other causes that justified the elevation of PSAP, so she discontinued the drug and began treatment with monthly lanreotide.