A 24-year-old woman, with reactive HIV serology for 5 years, without antiretroviral treatment or clinical controls, who reported starting approximately a month ago with pain in the right lower jaw region. She made a consultation at a Dentistry service where swelling was found in the right lower jaw region, at the level of the lower third molar. Treatment with antibiotics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs was indicated. Two weeks later, she consulted again without improvement in symptoms, reporting increased pain and swelling. The condition is interpreted as dental phlegmon and amoxicillin/clavulanic acid and corticosteroids are indicated. One week before her hospitalization, and due to the increase in size of the tumor described, she underwent surgical drainage, obtaining blood material. Analgesics are indicated and the same antibiotic regimen is maintained. Five days after this procedure she was admitted to our hospital.
As valuable epidemiological history, she referred to addiction to sniffed cocaine, marijuana, and smoking.
Upon admission she was lucid, feverish, oriented in time and space; The physical examination revealed the existence of a tumor formation in the right lower jaw region that extended to the submental area, measuring approximately 10 × 10 cm, purplish-red in color, indurated, painful on pressure, which prevented closure of the mouth, chewing, swallowing and speaking. It compromised the gums, including teeth, perioral soft tissues and the right lower jaw. Ipsilateral submandibular lymph nodes were palpable, indurated, painless, adhered to the skin and deep planes. The rest of the physical examination showed no clinically relevant alterations. Her chest X-ray was normal. The admission laboratory showed: Hct: 35%, WBC: 7,200/mm3 (N: 70%, E: 0.3%, B: 1.6%, M: 5.6%, L: 21%); ESR: 21 mm 1st hour; TGO: 41U/l, TGP: 31 U/l, FAL: 153 U/l, blood glucose: 138 mg/dl, urea: 27 mg/dl, creatinine: 0.56 mg/dl, Na+: 136 mEq/l, K+: 4.1 mEq/l, prothrombin concentration 98%, KPTT: 30.6", pregnancy test: negative, VRDL: non-reactive. Serologies for Chagas and hepatitis B and C viruses were negative and for toxoplasmosis: IgM: negative and IgG: positive 1/64. The CD4+ T lymphocyte count was 235 cells/ml (16.3%), CD8: 872/mm3 (60.5%) and the HIV viral load showed 154,263 copies. /ml (log10 4.74).

An abdominal ultrasound revealed mild heterogeneous splenomegaly; rest, without abnormalities. An excisional biopsy was performed for diagnostic purposes; The histopathological examination of the material obtained showed a proliferation of atypical lymphoid cells, medium to large in size, with regular nuclei, lax chromatin, presence of nucleoli attached to the cell membrane and amphophilic cytoplasm. Numerous mitosis and apoptosis phenomena were also observed. Immunohistochemistry revealed positivity against CD45, CD3, CD20, CD10 and Bcl-6 in the neoplastic cells, and negativity for CD138, MUM-1 and Bcl-2. The Ki67 cell proliferation index was 99%. Microbiological studies of the biopsy material were negative for AFB, fungi and common germs. The definitive histopathological diagnosis was primary BL of the oral cavity. The bone marrow biopsy did not show infiltration by atypical lymphoid cells. Gram, Grocott and Ziehl Neelsen stains were negative.

The patient received 6 cycles of chemotherapy based on the EPOCH-R regimen (etoposide, prednisone, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, with rituximab and intrathecal methotexate). Neutropenic episodes were treated with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. After the treatment, the complete disappearance of the gum lesion was observed. Four years later, the patient is asymptomatic, with no evidence of neoplastic disease, with an undetectable viral load and CD4 362 cells/ml.