This is a 27-year-old patient with juvenile arthritis of 12 years' duration that affects the knees, right ankle and right 1st MTCF. In the study she presented HLA B-27 positive, ANAS negative and RF negative. She does not present axial or extra-articular involvement. In treatment with medium-high doses of corticosteroids, 10-30 mg/day of prednisone with incomplete response, after no response to salazopyrine, methotrexate, hydroxychloroquine and low-dose corticosteroids, as well as infiltrations in both knees and ankle with corticosteroids and isotopic synoviorthesis of both knees with Yttrium 90.
After proposing treatment with etanercept to the patient, she was started at full doses accepted for juvenile arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and ankylopoietic spondylitis, with a complete and sustained response.
Given the desire to be a mother referred to by the patient and her husband, her little experience with this type of drugs is indicated and we advise against pregnancy. In December 2005, after 3 years of being asymptomatic without requiring NSAIDs or corticosteroids, she went to the consultation because she was two weeks pregnant (date of last period 11/26/2005) so, in agreement with the patient, we withdrew etanercept, starting treatment with prednisone in case of flare. Two weeks later, the patient came to the clinic reporting a disabling oligoarticular outbreak, for which she began treatment with etanercept, at a dose of 25 mg twice a week. We again indicate the lack of experience and in agreement with the patient, husband and health authorities, we maintain the treatment with strict monitoring. We add AAS 50 mg/day, iron and folic acid to the treatment.
The expected delivery date is 08/23/2006. The pregnancy proceeds without complications and without arthritis activity, with anemia and sustained elevation of acute phase reactants, which completely normalize after delivery, which occurs without complications, with a normal-term newborn. Artificial breastfeeding is advised and accepted. Prepartum and postpartum treatment was maintained with etanercept, being asymptomatic and with normal laboratory tests without inflammatory data or anemia.
No malformations or medical problems have been detected in the child after 13 months of follow-up.