49-year-old female patient (weight: 60 kilos; height: 1.63 meters) who consulted the emergency department due to a 5-day history of left lumbar pain, burning and electrical type, with an intensity of 10/10 on a verbal analog scale. The pain is episodic, exacerbated by movement, and does not improve with the administration of tramadol and diclofenac. On physical examination, erythematous, vesicular lesions with dermatomic distribution were found in the skin of the lumbar region and left buttock. The rest of the physical exam is normal. She has a history of lumbar disc disease, high blood pressure and hypothyroidism under medical treatment. The patient denies any history of kidney disease.
The patient is evaluated by the infectious disease service who consider that it is a case of herpetic neuritis and decide, due to the severity of the condition, to hospitalize the patient. During the first day and prior to the hydration protocol (500 ml of 0.9% saline solution), an infusion of intravenous acyclovir 10 mg/kg every 8 hours (600 mg) was started. Consultation with the pain clinic is requested for those who start an analgesic regimen with acetaminophen + codeine (500 + 30 mg orally every 6 hours), a dose of morphine in case of severe pain (2 mg per dose) and pregabalin (150 mg/12 hours). . The patient initially presented adequate analgesia without side effects, rating her pain at 4/10.
During the second day of hospitalization, she presented dizziness, nausea, emesis, drowsiness, and dysarthria. It is considered that the condition is a side effect of the analgesics and it was decided to discontinue acetaminophen with codeine and pregabalin. Morphine doses of 2 mg are prescribed in case of severe pain after evaluation of the state of consciousness. On the third day of hospitalization, without receiving any dose of opioid, the patient's general condition continued to deteriorate, with progression to stupor, tachypnea, desaturation, and respiratory distress. She is transferred to the Intensive Care Unit. The condition is compatible with acute pulmonary edema and renal failure with serum potassium at 5.7 mEq/L, BUN 50 mg/dl (entry value of 17.2), creatinine 5.01 mg/dl (entry value of 0.66) and arterial gases with metabolic acidosis. Nephrology confirms the diagnosis of acute renal failure secondary to the administration of acyclovir, with the need for hemodialysis. The patient required a single session of hemodialysis with improvement in nitrogen levels. Analgesic management continued with acetaminophen 500 mg and codeine 30 mg; The patient does not require new doses of morphine. She was discharged on the sixth day of hospitalization with controlled pain and normal kidney function tests.