A 15-year-old female patient presents to the Maxillofacial Surgery Service of the San Borja Arriarán Hospital Complex, presenting with painless right facial asymmetry, which has evolved progressively over time without any other symptoms.
In the interview, the patient did not report any morbid or surgical history. She also does not report the use of any drugs on a regular basis or allergies. No type of parafunction is investigated.
Extraoral examination revealed an increase in volume in the region of the right mandibular angle with poorly defined limits. On palpation it is firm in consistency, painless and does not present inflammatory signs or submandibular or cervical lymph node involvement. No pathological signs or symptoms are detected in the TMJ examination.

During the intraoral examination, nothing relevant was observed in relation to soft tissues, teeth and occlusion. Salivary secretion was normal, especially in relation to the Stenon's ducts.
A panoramic radiograph was requested, revealing a much more marked right mandibular angle. In the lateral skull x-ray, a double mandibular contour was observed and in the frontal teleradiography it was observed that the right mandibular sector presents greater development, without affecting the occlusal plane. In addition, bone scintigraphy was performed to rule out condylar hyperplasia and electromyography.

The diagnosis was unilateral right masseteric hypertrophy, so it was decided to resection the right mandibular angle extraorally.
Under general anesthesia, a right subangular-mandibular access is performed until the ipsilateral angle is exposed. The resection of said angle and a portion of the masseter muscle is performed. A biopsy of the extracted muscle was performed, the report of which did not reveal any pathological condition of the tissues.
The patient was monitored immediately after the intervention and had no complications. In the control carried out after 6 years, the patient is in good condition with no recurrences.