49-year-old male, smoker of 12 cigarettes a day and ex-drinker for 3 years. He went to the Emergency Department due to presenting progressive dyspnea in the previous days until he could do minimal exertion, accompanied by edema, dizziness and syncope, without accompanying chest pain or orthopnea. The relevant history included a case of infective endocarditis on a myxoid mitral valve, complicated by valve perforation and severe mitral insufficiency, initially treated with antibiotics and subsequently with the replacement of the mitral valve with a mechanical prosthesis through sternotomy. He was discharged 10 days before the current admission on treatment with acenocoumarol, bisoprolol, furosemide, and amiodarone. The examination revealed a fair general condition, arterial hypotension (SBP 90 mmHg), jugular engorgement and hepatomegaly of 3 fingers.
The analysis revealed a significant elevation of transaminases (AST: 5,550 U/L; ALT: 3,826 U/L) and LDH (10,375 U/L), with slightly elevated bilirubin levels (2 mg/dL). He also had anemia (Hb: 9.2 g/dL), deterioration of renal function (Cr: 1.76 mg/dl; urea 88 mg/dl) and an I.N.R. of 9.86. Serologies for HAV, HBV, HCV, HIV, EBV, CMV, and autoimmunity were negative. The intake of drugs and other hepatotoxic products was ruled out.
The electrocardiogram showed no abnormalities of interest and the ultrasound showed marked hepatomegaly with diffuse alteration of echogenicity in relation to steatosis, with the liver vascular study being normal.
Suspecting a possible cardiac origin of the clinical picture, an echocardiogram was performed, which confirmed the presence of massive pericardial effusion, predominantly in the free wall of the right ventricle, where it reached 60 mm thick, and in the left ventricle with a thickness of 29 mm. The right ventricle as well as the initial portion of the pulmonary artery appeared completely collapsed, evidence of severe echocardiographic tamponade.

Given these findings, the patient was transferred to the Coronary Unit where diagnostic and evacuative pericardiocentesis was performed using an anterior approach (3rd left parasternal intercostal space) with extraction of 600 cc of hemorrhagic fluid, leaving a slight effusion located at the apical level (encapsulated). Samples were sent for biochemistry, microbiology and cytology, confirming a blood effusion with a hematocrit higher than the plasma one, with the microbiological study and cytology being normal. At the same time, treatment with corticosteroids was started with good clinical response. Analytically, a normalization of creatinine levels (0.72 mg/dL) and a progressive decrease in transaminase values ​​(AST: 304 U/L; ALT: 227 U/L) and LDH (568 U/L) were observed. L). Prior to discharge, a control echocardiogram was performed, which showed mild pericardial effusion with a fibrinous, loculated appearance, with an asymmetric distribution, predominantly located at the anterior level and apex of the right ventricle, with no evidence of hemodynamic compromise. Given the good clinical and analytical evolution, a liver biopsy was not necessary and he was diagnosed with ischemic hepatitis due to a low output situation in relation to cardiac tamponade secondary to postpericardiotomy syndrome with hemorrhagic transformation.