A 43-year-old man from Morocco was admitted to our service with a 4-day history of painless mucocutaneous jaundice, choluria, and generalized pruritus. The only history of interest included treated tuberculosis, hypercholesterolemia on dietary treatment, and light smoking. The analysis showed the following data: bilirubin 19.44 mg/dl, GOT 110 IU/ml, GPT 371 IU/ml, GGT 632 IU/ml, FA 787 IU/ml, LDH 394 IU/ml. Amylase and lipase were normal at all times. Hypergammaglobulinemia (gammaglobulin 1.56%) was also notable, with IgG 1840 IU/ml (751-1,560 IU/ml). The CA 19-9 marker was 82 IU/ml. Autoantibodies (ANA, AMA, AMA-2, ANCA, LKM1, SMA, SLA and F-actin) and serologies for viruses and bacteria (HAV, HBV, HCV, HIV, CMV, EBV, VZV, HSV, mumps virus , parvovirus B19, Brucella, Borrelia, Coxiella, Leishmania, Rickettsias and Toxoplasma) were negative. The abdominal ultrasound showed dilation of the intra- and extrahepatic bile duct and the endoscopy (EUS) showed an enlarged pancreas with a 3 cm focal lesion at the level of the head and slight posterior dilation of the pancreatic duct. The thoracoabdominal CT scan also revealed a pancreas that was globally increased in size, hypodense, with a hypodense peripancreatic halo, with a smooth edge, without involvement of the peripancreatic fat, and, at the retroperitoneal level, in a periaortic location with extension to the bilateral iliac territory, a dense tissue. surrounding said vascular structures like a case, all of which is compatible with autoimmune pancreatitis with retroperitoneal fibrosis. Given the persistence of pruritus and manifest cholestasis, percutaneous biliary drainage was performed, cholangiography showing a stenosing lesion in the distal common bile duct suggestive of pancreatic neoplasia. Given this possibility as the first differential diagnosis, an EUS-guided fine needle aspiration was performed with negative cytology for malignant cells and negative Zielh stain. Given the absence of confirmation of neoplasia, and with the suspicion of autoimmune pancreatitis, an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) was performed, observing dilation of the main bile duct with a regular stenosis in its distal portion, about 3-4 cm, benign, on which a plastic endoprosthesis was placed. Treatment with corticosteroids (methylprednisolone at a dose of 32 mg/day) was initiated and percutaneous drainage was removed. With the diagnosis of probable AIP, the patient was discharged and followed up on an outpatient basis, verifying normalization of all analytical parameters and resolution in the control abdominal CT, at one month and 4 months, of the lesions described initially, with normalization of the pancreatic size and appearance and disappearance of retroperitoneal fibrosis. The dose of corticosteroids was progressively decreased until it was completely removed at the 4th month, and the biliary stent was also removed. To date, after 24 months of follow-up, the patient has remained asymptomatic without recurrence of autoimmune pancreatitis or retroperitoneal fibrosis.