A 30-year-old man suffered an accident while loading a speargun at his home. He called the emergency services. After protocol "A, B, C", the patient's clinical examination showed only a penetrating wound at the level of the submandibular region.
The approximate size of the harpoon was 80 cm long and 1 cm in diameter with an intracranial path of about 15 cm. Firefighters carefully cut the harpoon to facilitate the transfer of the patient to the hospital.
The patient was hemodynamically stable, alert and oriented (Glasgow 15), with no neurological deficit and no active bleeding. He had blood clots in his left ear canal.
There was no cerebrospinal fluid leakage from the entry wound or the external auditory canal. The lateral skull x-ray showed the trajectory, direction and existence of the barb mechanism on the harpoon. An emergency CT scan was performed which revealed the direction of the arrow. The entrance orifice was in the left submandibular region and penetrated to the carotid siphon of the petrous bone of the left temporal bone, passing very close to the petrosal sinus. The fin of the harpoon was located at the level of the left mandibular condyle on its internal surface. Under general anesthesia and nasotracheal intubation, the patient was placed in a supine position and a neutral head position. The position of the harpoon, adjacent to the left mandibular condyle, made oral opening difficult. Despite this, access was performed intraorally at the level of the left tonsillar pillar. A 4 cm incision was made. Using this approach, the harpoon was exposed at the level of the fin mechanism. Subsequently, the barb mechanism of the harpoon was inactivated by ligation with steel thread.

Finally, and under intraoral control, the harpoon was extracted in the opposite direction to its entry.

No cerebrospinal fluid leakage was observed from the entry wound or intraoral access. The intraoral wound was then sutured with 3/0 vicryl and the subcutaneous wound with 4/0 vicryl, and the submandibular wound with 4/0 prolene.
Immediately after the operation, a control CT scan was performed in which only a small pneumocephalus was observed.

The patient was kept under observation for 24 hours without showing neurological focality. Subsequently, he was transferred to the ward and was discharged on postoperative day 3 without any type of neurological disorder. No complications were reported.
One month later, an audiometry was performed, which revealed a 60% conductive hearing loss in the left ear.
Currently the patient leads a normal life and is only waiting for a hearing prosthesis.