Male, 9 years and 8 months old, with no relevant history, referred to the Pediatric Emergency Service from his health center due to headache and proptosis. Onset of symptoms 4 days before, such as fever, vomiting, headache and nasal congestion; diagnosed at his health center with sinusitis and on antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid for 48 hours, without improvement in symptoms. He reported intense right fronto-temporal headache and edema of the right eyelid that had evolved into proptosis in the last few hours.
On physical examination, slight proptosis of the right eye was evident, with slight eyelid swelling, as well as obstruction of the nasal fossa on the same side. The neurological examination only highlights a slight difficulty with conjugate gaze.
Given the poor clinical evolution of the sinusitis and the appearance of neurological symptoms, an emergency cranial CT scan was performed with clinical suspicion of possible intracranial complication. The CT scan shows pansinusitis, a subperiosteal phlegmon on the medial wall of the right orbit and a small right frontal subdural empyema (1.8 x 1.8 x 0.6 cm).

Assessed jointly with professionals from the Neurosurgery service, it was decided to maintain an expectant attitude. Empirical intravenous treatment was started with cefotaxime, vancomycin and metronidazole. Likewise, drainage of the primary focus (pansinusitis) is performed by evacuating the sinuses through a nasal approach. All cultures are negative.
The clinical evolution is favorable, with symptoms disappearing a few days after the start of treatment. Serially, image controls (MRI) are performed in which a progressive decrease is seen until complete disappearance after eighteen days of treatment. A blood test was performed which showed a normalization of the infectious parameters, with leukopenia and hypertransaminasemia secondary to antibiotic treatment.

Antibiotic treatment was suspended twenty-six days after its start, and he was discharged. Subsequently, he was monitored on an outpatient basis, with no neurological sequelae evident, and with absolute normalization of the analytical parameters.