Eight-year-old patient with no personal or family history of interest. He went to the emergency room because, coinciding with a catarrhal process with odynophagia without fever, he suddenly presented coprolalia, selective memory disorder (he does not remember and confuses some names of people he knows), abnormal behavior with hyperactivity and compulsive movements. She does not lose consciousness nor is there any alteration in muscle tone or strength. The family describes the condition as an explosive and surprising behavioral alteration. The episode lasts a few minutes and when she arrives at the emergency room she feels calmer, although she continues to present language alterations and confusion in relation to her family and the environment in which she finds herself. He reports cold symptoms and sore throat. He is feverish.
On examination, no rashes are observed; cardiopulmonary auscultation is normal. ENT examination: tonsillar exudation. Abdomen: soft, without visceromegaly. Sensation, tone, strength, and deep tendon reflexes are normal. There are no signs of neurological focality.
A blood test is performed, which shows 18,400 leukocytes (86 segmented, three arched, six lymphocytes, three monocytes), and 260,000 platelets. Biochemistry without alterations in the basic screening, C-reactive protein (CRP): 11 mg/l. A throat swab was collected and was positive for Streptococcus pyogenes (group A).
He was admitted for observation and study of the process and antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin was started, which ended after ten days. The neuropsychiatric symptoms disappear completely 24 hours after admission. Given the rapid resolution and the child's good general condition, it was decided to discharge him from the hospital and continue with an outpatient study.
When we see him in the Primary Care consultation, the patient is asymptomatic, with physical and neurological examination without alterations. A cranial magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalogram were requested, which were normal. He is seen for a catarrhal process three months later, without recurrence of the symptoms described in the previous episode of tonsillitis. He remains relapse-free.
He has performed a tonsillar exudate study on two occasions for two infectious processes, which have been negative. His status as a carrier is also ruled out, although the levels of anti-streptolysin O antibodies (ASLO) have not been determined because he has not presented clinical relapses.