A 47-year-old man, who stopped smoking ten years ago, smoked between 10-20 cigarettes/day for 15 years and was diagnosed 8 years ago with IgA mesangial glomerulonephritis. He had been working for 12 years as a welder in a company manufacturing steel discs that had inserted cobalt and tungsten carbide "teeth" used to cut marble and granite. The welder used an autogenous welding system that used, as filler metal, metal rods based on: silver (39%), cadmium (25%), copper (22%) and zinc (14%). He consumed 1 Kg/week; He did not use respiratory protective equipment and his workplace did not have a localized smoke extraction system. The cadmium concentrations at his workplace were 52 μg/m3 (Environmental Limit Value (ELV) is 10 μg/m3). During the twelve years that he was working, he had undergone an initial examination and two non-specific periodic examinations without controlling exposure to cadmium and other chemical contaminants; Laboratory results were within normal limits (complete blood count, blood glucose, cholesterol, liver transaminases, serum creatinine, and urine cytochemical study). In a general analysis performed by his family doctor, microhematuria and proteinuria were detected. When his doctor took his medical history, she detected exposure to cadmium fumes, so he was referred to the Toxicology Unit of our hospital. Upon admission, the patient is asymptomatic, has no personal or family history of nephrology, has no obesity or diabetes problems (blood glucose levels are normal), does not take any type of medication on a regular basis, and blood pressure is 105/65 mm. /Hg. The analysis revealed proteinuria of 2 g/24 h, microhaematuria of 150 red blood cells/field, cadmium in blood of 20 μg/l (Biological Limit Value [BV]: 5 μg/l) and cadmium in urine of 85 μg/g. of creatinine (VLB: 5 μg/g creatinine). Because the kidney lesions were glomerular in nature, and cadmium mainly causes tubular lesions, a renal biopsy study was recommended. In optical microscopy, five glomeruli were observed, one of them completely sclerosed; the rest showed slight segmental hypercellularity; In two glomeruli, extracapillary segmental proliferation and foci of interstitial fibrosis with tubular atrophy were detected. Immunofluorescence was positive for C3 (+++) and IgA (++) with a mesangial pattern. The diagnosis was focal Ig A mesangial glomerulonephritis and treatment was started with enalapril 10 mg/day. Due to the high concentrations of cadmium in biological fluids (blood and urine), which after eight years of cessation of exposure are above the maximum limit values ​​allowed in Spain in workers exposed to cadmium, the patient was removed from his job; In addition, he was considered a worker especially sensitive to exposure to nephrotoxic substances, where we advised that his exposure be avoided in order to minimize as much as possible the possibility of the patient evolving into chronic kidney disease. He was followed up for 8 years (the values ​​of serum creatinine, glomerular filtration rate, proteinuria and urinary sediment are expressed in Table 1) and the repeated controls of beta2-globulin and N-acetylglucosaminidase (NAG) were within the normal. At present, cadmium concentrations in blood are 7 μg/l (VLB: 5 μg/l) and cadmium in urine is 18 μg/g (VLB: 5 μg/g).