A 36-year-old woman, with no history, began with paresthesia in the thumb of her right hand followed, 2 days later, by weakness in pincer movement. Two days later, she developed dorsiflexion paresis of the left foot and painful paresthesias on the dorsum of the foot. She was admitted one week after the onset of the week of evolution, showing grade 3 paresis on the Medical Research Council (MRC) scale of the right opponens and abductor pollicis brevis (ACP) and grade 4 MRC of the dependent sciatic muscles. left external popliteal muscle (EPC) along with tactile and painful hypoesthesia in the first and second fingers of the right hand and the dorsum of the left foot. She was in good general condition without fever, skin lesions or lymphadenopathy. Five days after her admission, new neurological alterations appeared, consisting of MRC grade 3 paresis of the left deltoid and triceps brachii and paresthesias on the external surface of the left arm and both calves.
The complementary studies performed included erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), blood count, elemental biochemistry of blood and urine, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) study, coagulation study that included platelets, mean platelet volume, prothrombin time, International Normalized Ratio (INR). ) and fibrinogen, proteinogram, immunoglobulins, complement fractions C3 and C4, cryoglobulins, antinuclear antibodies (ANA), antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA), anticardiolipin antibodies IgG and IgM and antigangliosides GM1 and GD1b, rheumatoid factor, lues serology ( RPR), Borrelia burgdorferi and hepatitis B and C, Mantoux, electrocardiogram (ECG), chest x-ray, brain, thoracic and abdominal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The findings of these examinations were within the normal range.
During admission, two neurophysiological studies are performed, which are detailed in Table 1. The first, carried out 9 days after the onset of symptoms, highlighted the absence of motor potential (PM) of the left PSC and a reduction in the amplitude of the PM of the right median with stimuli in the wrist, elbow and axilla compared to that obtained with palmar stimulation. The electromyogram (EMG) of the right PCA showed a pattern of simple maximum effort with few motor unit potentials (MUPs) of normal characteristics and without spontaneous activity. No spontaneous or voluntary activity was recorded in the left tibialis anterior (TA). In the second study carried out 15 days after the onset, changes were observed in the sensory conduction of several nerves, which had previously shown no alterations. These included a reduction in the amplitude of the sensory potential of the left superficial peroneal nerve, absence of sensory responses in the sural and right median nerves when stimulating the third finger, and a decrease in the amplitude of those obtained from the first and second fingers. As in the first study, PM was not obtained from the left CPE. The amplitude of the right median PMs was reduced, including that corresponding to stimulation in the palm, which had decreased compared to that of the previous study. In the EMG, spontaneous activity was recorded in the form of fibrillations and positive waves, abundant in the right PCA and scarce in the left TA and pedis. As in the previous study, the H reflex and F waves of the ulnar, posterior tibial, left median and right EPC were normal and no proximal blocks of motor conduction were observed in the left median and in both ulnars, obtaining normal values ​​up to a point by Erb.

A biopsy of the left sural nerve was performed, which showed axonal degeneration and perivascular inflammatory infiltrate compatible with infarction due to vasculitis.

Treatment was initiated with 60 mg/day of prednisone, with subjective improvement in muscle weakness and painful paresthesias. The dose of prednisone was then gradually reduced. At 9 months, 45 mg every other day, improvement in paresthesias in the lower extremities and proximal strength in the left upper extremity. Sensorimotor deficit persisted in the right hand and marked paresis in the territory of the left EPC. A third neurophysiological study performed at 9 months showed no significant changes compared to the previous one, except for the reappearance of the low-amplitude sensory potential in the right sural nerve. In the EMG, moderate spontaneous activity persisted in the right PCA and left TA, with markedly deficient maximum effort patterns and PUMs with signs of active reinnervation, irregular (polyphasic and polyturns) and unstable.