A 33-year-old woman was referred for abdominal pain. She was allergic to penicillin, had a tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy, she had a normal pregnancy with delivery 4 years ago, and she does not report toxic habits or regular medication. She goes to the emergency room with pain in the left upper quadrant for 3 months, which has intensified in the last 24 hours. She associated increased abdominal circumference, nausea and fever of 38.5ºC, with no other infectious focality. She does not report toxic syndrome or alteration of intestinal habit.
On examination, she was conscious, oriented, normally hydrated, with a certain paleness of the skin and mucous membranes. BP 140/80, HR 100 ppm, RR 20 rpm, axillary temperature 37.3 ºC. Normal cardiac and pulmonary auscultation. Her abdomen is soft, depressible, with the only finding being a splenomegaly of about 17 cm, hard and painful. No peripheral lymphadenopathy is palpable and the extremities are normal.
Analytically, upon admission, the patient had 2,900 leukocytes/mm3 (82% N, 14% L), HB 8.2 g%, Hct 26%, MCV 84.8, RDW 17.1, 79,000 plaque/mm3, quick 66%, cephalin 29. ; rest of biochemistry with strictly normal parameters (glycemia, kidney function and ionogram). Radiologically, elevation of the two hemidiaphragms is observed without alteration of the pulmonary hilum, and displacement of the intestinal loops due to a mass effect in the left hypochondrium.
With the diagnosis of splenomegaly and pancytopenia under study, she was admitted to Hematology. Abdominal ultrasound reported images compatible with multiple splenic intraparenchymal hematomas. Thoracoabdominal CT showed no other findings. Negative cytogenetic studies were performed, negative viral liver serology, negative mantoux, normal hormonal study, normal folic acid metabolites, complete coagulation study with no findings other than thrombopenia, normal haptoglobin, negative polyspecific erythrocyte direct coombs, proteinogram with slight increase in gamma globulin (22.4%; normal < 18.6%) and slight decrease in iron, 25 microg% (normal < 37). Tumor markers were negative, as was screening for occult tumors (mammography, colonoscopy, genital cytology, bone marrow biopsy). During this study, he required a transfusion of 450 cc of concentrated deleukotic red blood cells, remaining hemodynamically stable, and with abdominal pain controlled with first-step analgesics.
With the diagnosis of hypersplenism syndrome, a splenectomy was requested, which was performed laparoscopically, without incident. The postoperative period was afebrile, without local or general complications, afebrile, pain remission, recovery of oral intake and removal of the drain.
The pathological report of the specimen showed: splenic peliosis without endothelial hyperplasia, with sinus histiocytosis and macrophage cells and hemosiderin crystals.
After one year of follow-up, the woman has recovered normal parameters in the three hematological series without any treatment, without evidence of complications or liver recurrences.