A 28-year-old man was admitted to the emergency department of a regional hospital presenting, as a result of a car accident, multiple trauma with fracture of the 6th costal arch and right lung contusion, renal laceration with right subcapsular and adrenal hematoma, abdominal wall hematoma, right elbow dislocation and ligament injury to the knee on the same side, wounds with loss of substance in both lower extremities, and no signs of TBI.
The patient required orotracheal intubation and assisted ventilation due to respiratory failure, and blood transfusions due to acute anemia, and was admitted to the ICU. Extubated after 48 hours without incident, he was transferred to the hospitalization ward 24 hours later, where he remained for ten days, proceeding to place a cast on his right lower extremity.
Since discharge from the hospital, 13 days after the trauma, the patient has presented pain at the dorso-lumbar level, initially attributed to the kidney trauma, which in the last 7 days is associated with a subjective sensation of loss of strength with paresthesias-dysesthesias in both extremities. lower, more pronounced when lying down, and in the last 72 hours difficulty in starting urination and constipation. The patient goes, one month after the trauma, to the regional hospital where an X-ray of the thoracic and lumbar spine is performed, showing an increase in the interspinous distance in the anteroposterior projection, and in the lateral projection an anterior displacement of the vertebral body of T11 over T12, with a possible dislocation of facet joints at this level, and a minimal fracture of the most anterior portion of the vertebral body of T12. An MRI was performed of the area in which the existence of hematomas in the canal was ruled out, confirming the X-ray findings, and with a doubtful image of spinal cord contusion. Likewise, the presence of blood is observed at the level of the interspinous ligament. The patient is referred to our service.

At the time of his admission, the patient presented mild paraparesis (4 + / 5) predominantly proximal, without sensory deficits, mild bilateral symmetrical patellar hyperreflexia, without signs of pyramidal release. CT is performed, which in the axial sections reveals the existence of an abnormal arrangement of the T11-T12 facets, with a stenosis of the canal at that level, the existence of a naked facet sign, and in the sagittal and Three-dimensional dislocation and blockage of the facet joints at the T11-T12 level is confirmed bilaterally.

The patient underwent surgery through a posterior approach, proceeding to the removal of a scar magma at the level of both joints, curettage of the facets of the superior FAs of T12, and open reduction of the dislocation through distraction-extension maneuvers, achieving a almost complete reduction after performing a bilateral partial laminectomy, which facilitated the reduction, followed by T11-T12 fixation with pedicle screws, bars, and autologous graft. The patient progressed favorably, his neurological symptoms disappearing in the first week, and he was discharged without pain and walking normally.