We present a clinical case of chronic bladder dysfunction (detrusor overactivity), associated with intense refractory pain, secondary to bladder spasms, in a patient requiring continuous bladder lavage.
A 58-year-old man was admitted to the hospital due to macroscopic hematuria, accompanied by suprapubic pain, and had been wearing a urethral catheter for 72 hours before admission due to acute urinary retention. His personal history includes right lumbosciatalgia due to lumbar disc protrusions, remote urolithiasis treated with extracorporeal lithotripsy, and a long-standing chronic voiding syndrome, in the context of benign prostatic hypertrophy according to prostate biopsy, on chronic treatment with oral tamsulosin ( vo), after two previous transurethral prostatic resections. The patient is admitted to the hospital by the Urology Service, undergoing study with imaging techniques. The abdominopelvic ultrasound showed signs of "fighting bladder", with no signs of obstructive uropathy, and the abdominopelvic computed tomography with contrast revealed prostatic hypertrophy and diffuse parietal thickening of the bladder, compatible with detrusor hypertrophy. The urethral catheter is replaced by a catheter adapted to continuous bladder lavage, to dissolve intravesical clots. During the establishment of bladder lavage, episodes of colicky suprapubic pain appear, accompanied by intense neurovegetative cortex and reflux of hematuric bladder fluid, against gravity, from the bladder lavage solution, located about sixty centimeters above the patient's level. After ruling out obstructive problems and positioning of the urethral catheter, bladder spasms due to detrusor overactivity were diagnosed and treatment was started with intravenous (IV) hyoscine butylbromide, metamizole and dexketoprofen, tolterodine and alprazolam, both orally, and subcutaneous morphic chloride. unsuccessfully. Given the persistence of the painful symptoms and the intolerance to bladder lavage therapy, it was decided to place a lumbar epidural catheter in the L3-L4 intervertebral space, through which a bolus of 80 mg of 2% lidocaine with 50 μg of fentanyl and subsequently an infusion of 0.125% levobupivacaine with fentanyl is started, at a rate of 5 mg/hour and 4 μg/hour respectively. After the establishment of the epidural block, excellent control of painful symptoms and urodynamic manifestations of bladder spasm is achieved, with a level of sensory block at the level of the T12 dermatome and with a motor block at grade 0 on the Bromage scale. The aforementioned perfusion is maintained until the accidental explantation of the epidural catheter, which occurs seven days later, starting IV analgesia with morphine chloride at 0.96 mg/hour. On the tenth day of admission, surgery was scheduled under intradural anesthesia for retropubic prostatic adenomectomy, according to the Millin technique, maintaining the IV morphic chloride regimen, associated with IV paracetamol, as postoperative analgesia. Likewise, tolterodina vo was maintained. At 48 hours postoperatively, and still under continuous bladder lavage therapy, the episodes of painful bladder spasms reappeared, with similar characteristics to the previous ones, requiring an increase in the rate of morphine chloride infusion to 1.8 mg/hour. Placement of a new epidural catheter is ruled out due to postoperative prophylactic heparinization. After discontinuation of continuous postoperative bladder lavage due to cessation of hematuria, the clinical picture completely disappears. The patient reported greater pain relief with the epidural block, compared to the therapeutic combination of spasmolytics, morphine chloride and tolterodine.