An 18-month-old woman who is taken to the Emergency Department because she presents a 48-hour history consisting of fever of 38.5°C maximum axillary, limping, antalgic attitude, pain and limitation to passive and active mobilization of the left hip. .
The study is completed with blood tests that show elevated acute phase reactants (17,800 leukocytes with 53% neutrophils, 433,000 platelets, ESR 55 mm/hour, CRP 9.56 mg/dL and PCT 1.5 ng/mL), blood culture that It is negative, bone x-ray without alterations and ultrasound of the hips with distension of the joint capsule and intra-articular echogenic content.
Given the suspicion of septic arthritis of the left hip, it was decided to perform arthrocentesis in which purulent synovial fluid was obtained. A sample was sent for biochemistry and culture and empirical parenteral antibiotic therapy was started with cefotaxime at 180 mg/kg and cloxacillin at 80 mg/kg. The synovial fluid results are consistent with septic arthritis and the joint fluid culture is positive for Haemophilus influenzae.
To determine a possible vaccine failure, given that the patient was vaccinated correctly for her age, a sample is sent to the reference hospital to type the bacteria, which turns out to be type f sensitive to cefotaxime. After a week in the hospital, an analysis was performed with a complete blood count, white blood cell count, and immunoglobulins, which were normal.
Given the results of the culture and the antibiogram, intravenous cloxacillin was suspended and only parenteral cefotaxime was continued at the same initial doses and monitoring of the condition's evolution. After completing 10 days of intravenous antibiotic therapy and 14 days of oral antibiotic therapy (with amoxicillin-clavulanate), the evolution has been satisfactory (complete, painless mobility, without limping when walking and without sequelae in imaging techniques performed after completing the treatment. ). The patient remains asymptomatic and without sequelae at 9 months of follow-up.