AM, a 38-year-old white woman who consulted in September 2000 for asymmetry and facial pain. She had a progressively growing tumor of the left hemimaxilla that had been developing for 9 months. Upon facial examination, an increase in volume was observed in the left infraorbital region, which slightly elevated the lower eyelid. She did not have deviation of the nasal pyramid, but she did have subjective obstruction of the left nostril. The ocular examination showed no abnormalities. The oral examination revealed caries in tooth 23 and fillings in teeth 21, 22, 24, 26 and 27 and absence of tooth 25. A large mass with diffuse boundaries, covered by healthy, erythematous mucosa, deformed the upper lateral vestibule. left. On palpation, the lesion showed crackling areas and other soft areas, was asymptomatic and had clear boundaries. The mass extended towards the palate, slightly deforming the alveolar ridge and the palatal vault. Anterior rhinoscopy showed no alterations of the nasal floor or walls.

Waters' X-ray showed a unilocular homogeneous radiolucent mass with a larger diameter of 5 cm, which occupied the entire left maxilla, displacing the maxillary sinus and reaching the infraorbital rim, with clear limits, but not corticalized.
In the computed axial tomography, a spherical mass was observed, extending from the canine or anterior pillar to the pterygoid process, which expanded and thinned the cortices and in some areas perforated them. There was destruction of the intersinus-nasal septum and involvement of the inferior turbinate. It was a radiolucent image with radiopaque elements inside, suggesting trabeculations.

The protocol described above was implemented for the treatment of LCG. Regional anesthesia was performed by blocking the left maxillary nerve through the posterior palatine foramen according to the Carrea technique.19
Two series of intralesional corticosteroids were performed. The first series began in September 2000 and ended in October of the same year. Then, in mid-December 2000, the 2nd series was carried out, 2 months after the completion of the 1st. In this second series there was an interval of 2 weeks in which the patient did not receive treatment since she missed scheduled appointments, so it was decided to perform the infiltrations at her home.
In March 2001, 2 months after completing the 2nd series and after considering that the lesion was not going to reduce its size further, it was decided to perform enucleation under general anesthesia through an oral approach through the upper vestibule. Macroscopically, the lesion corresponded to a fibrous, encapsulated, non-friable, non-bleeding lesion that was easily enucleated from the bone cavity.

The histological diagnosis corresponded to a LCG. In the description of the pathological anatomy, it was highlighted that the lesion was predominantly spindle cell with collagenized sectors and the presence of bone and osteoid trabeculae covered by osteoblasts was also observed.
In summary, the patient received 12 corticosteroid infiltrations in 2 series and then enucleation of the lesion was performed. From a clinical and radiographic point of view, at 22 months of follow-up there is no evidence of residual lesion or recurrence.
The patient did not present adverse effects to treatment with corticosteroids.