A 68-year-old man, with no known drug allergies, with a history of HBP, mild chronic renal failure, chronic atrial fibrillation, antithrombin III deficiency that led to intestinal ischemia due to mesenteric venous thrombosis nine years earlier, with resection of 150 cm of jejunum and ileum. .
In March 2005 he went to the Emergency Service after having presented two melenic bowel movements at his home. An upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed, visualizing a portion of depapillated mucosa of the duodenum without active bleeding. Colonoscopy revealed multiple teleangiectatic lesions without active bleeding. Subsequently, a capsule endoscopy study was performed, which revealed multiple ecchymoses in the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, and cecum.
After several similar episodes of HDB requiring transfusions, the endoscopies and capsule were repeated, without new findings. A scintigraphy was also performed with labeled red blood cells, which was compatible with the existence of small intestine angiodysplasia. During one of the episodes, a mesenteric angiography was performed, revealing extravasation at the level of the arteriovenous fistula and embolization with coils, after which the patient presented an acute abdomen and persistent bleeding, a laparotomy was performed and ischemia of the previous anastomosis was found, possibly relationship with embolization. A new ileum resection was performed, leaving about 80 cm with the ileocecal valve intact.
Despite the intervention, the HDB symptoms continued, so treatment with somatostatin was attempted, without response.
In the 28 months following the first episode, the patient required a total of 132 packed red blood cells.
Given the failure of all previous therapies and the inadequacy of new surgical treatments, treatment with thalidomide was started at a dose of 100 mg per day at the beginning of July 2007. Eight months later, the patient has had no new episodes of HDB. nor has he required any transfusion. Currently, the patient is followed monthly in outpatient clinics. He is asymptomatic except for occasional and mild paresthesias in the lower limbs, with a normal electromyogram. The patient has had an episode of bilateral PE resolved with anticoagulant treatment. Given the history of antithrombin III deficiency and the fact that thrombophilia is not described among the possible side effects of thalidomide, we believe that this event is not attributable to its use.