The case of a 66-year-old woman with a history of high blood pressure, fibromyalgia and myasthenia gravis diagnosed 20 years earlier came to the forensic pathology service. He was on chronic antihypertensive treatment with amlodipine (10 mg/24 h), furosemide (40 mg/24 h) and potassium losartan (50 mg/24 h), anxiolytic-antidepressant with duloxetine (30 mg/24 h) and amytriptyline hydrochloride ( 10 mg/24 h), treatment for osteoporosis with calcifediol (800 mg/24 h) and gastric protection with omeprazole (20 mg/24 h). A week before death, she consulted the emergency room due to a cold, which was treated with ciprofloxacin and carbocisteine, with improvement in her respiratory symptoms. Two days before dying, she consulted the emergency department again as she reported general weakness that was attributed to the antibiotic treatment and its suspension was indicated. There were no symptoms of headache and/or other focal neurological symptoms in her clinical history.
The patient died suddenly and her husband reported dyspnea as the only symptom prior to her death.
During the autopsy the most notable findings were the following:
Height of 149 cm, weight of 80 Kg and Body Mass Index of 36 Kg/m2, which corresponded to type II obesity. Other notable findings of the external examination were hirsutism, midthoracotomy scar as a consequence of thymectomy for the treatment of myasthenia gravis, and lower extremity edema. As external signs of a violent cause, a recent right gluteal hematoma was found compatible with the fall she suffered during the perimortal period and with the sitting position on the floor in which she found herself during the act of lifting the corpse.
The most relevant findings of the internal examination were clotted hemopericardium of 200 g, the heart weighed 400 g (expected weight 320 g) and we observed a 0.5 cm rupture in the anterior middle part of the left ventricle due to transmural infarction secondary to coronary atheromatosis of the three vessels, most marked in the middle third of the anterior descending where it obstructed the vascular lumen by more than 75%.
In her skull, the presence of internal frontal hyperostosis stood out, less marked in the parietal area. The thickness of the unaffected diploe was 8 mm while in the areas of hyperostosis the thicknesses were between 1.5 mm and 2.3 mm. In addition, multiple calcified meningiomas were found following the superior longitudinal sinus, most of them nodular in shape and some of them smaller, spiculated and plaque-shaped. At the cerebral level, a slight depression of the surface of both frontal lobes was observed.

The rest of the autopsy findings were not significant and the results of the toxicological analytical study were negative. The histopathological study was consistent with the macroscopic data of internal frontal hyperostosis and the meningiomas were calcified psammomatous.