We present a 30-year-old man, with no medical-surgical history of interest, who consulted for a left side-cervical tumor of several months' duration; The patient reported night sweats in recent months as the only notable finding in the history.
On examination, a tumor measuring approximately 5x5cm in diameter medial to the lower third of the sternocleidomastoid muscle (SCM) was seen, of elastic consistency, poorly defined, not adhered to deep planes or to the skin, whose size did not vary with postural changes, not pulsatile, and with negative auscultation.
A puncture guided by computed tomography (CT) was requested, which was reported as lymphatic lymph node cellularity with indeterminate changes that could not be typified cytologically, recommending a viral serological study.
The CT with intravenous contrast showed a homogeneous mass, measuring 5x7 cm, solid, well-defined, located in the left cervical vascular space that compresses the left internal jugular vein, behind the ECM, with moderate contrast enhancement and some lymphadenopathy. adjacent. There was no hyperenhancement suggestive of carotid glomus. The radiological differential diagnosis included lymphoproliferative process, neurogenic tumor or mesenchymal tumor.

Under general anesthesia, a left supraclavicular horizontal incision was made and the SCM muscle sectioned at that level to obtain adequate exposure. A 5x7 cm tumor was found, with a congestive appearance, hard and with intense peripheral vascularization that made its dissection difficult; The tumor had a plane of separation with the vascular space. The clinical appearance at the time of surgery impressed the authors of vascular tumor.

In the pathological study of the specimen, it was confirmed that it was a lymph node with preserved architecture and a marked increase in the number of lymphoid follicles and positivity for immunohistochemical markers (CD20+CD10+, bcl2-). Characteristically, the germinal centers presented hyaline material, some vessels, and an onion-layered arrangement of the lymphocyte crown.

The number of plasma cells (CD138) were within the normal range and showed no restriction for immunoglobulin light chains (kappa and lambda).
In the molecular study, the presence of human herpes virus type 8 (HHV 8) was not detected by PCR technique.
A thoraco-abdomino-pelvic CT was performed, which was within normal limits. The complete analysis, immunological study and serology were normal.
These findings represent the localized form of lymphoid angiofollicular hyperplasia or Castleman's disease, hyaline-vascular variant.