The case we present corresponds to a 30-year-old woman. with no relevant personal history, that she consulted for an initial symptoms of pulsating right hemicranial headache of two months duration that progressed to become holocranial. This headache had organic characteristics and was resistant to conventional treatment (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and triptans). In addition, it was accompanied by blurred vision, more pronounced in the left eye, two episodes of self-limited diplopia and occasional episodes of left eyelid ptosis. The neurological examination revealed an afferent pupillary defect in the left eye with a decrease in visual acuity of 0.1 and 0.25 in the right eye. The rest of the cranial nerves did not present alterations on examination. The hormonal study did not reveal any functional alteration. The cranial computed tomography (CT) scan revealed a cystic, non-calcified lesion that eroded the sphenoid sinus and the lateral walls of the sella turcica. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) confirmed the existence of a 4 x 3 x 3 cm tumor. in the region of the spheroidal sinus, which destroyed, eroded and expanded the walls of the sinus and the clivus itself. The injury caused compression and cranial displacement of the pituitary gland and chiasm. It appeared isointense on T1-weighted sequences and hyperintense on T2 sequences, with fluid-liquid levels inside, septum appearance, and peripheral enhancement on post-contrast sequences. In addition, there was sclerosis of the surrounding sphenoid bone.

Under general anesthesia, a transsphenoidal sublabial approach was performed, partially resecting the lesion in its central part, with the intention of decompressing the optic chiasm.
In the pathological analysis, the presence of a partially mineralized benign-looking tissue was confirmed, with the presence of osteoblasts and irregular trabeculae forming large venous lakes, compatible with an aneurysmal bone cyst.
In the post-surgical control MRI, adequate decompression of the optic chiasm is seen with residual injury in both lateral regions and ethmoidal cells.
The neuro-ophthalmological examination performed three months later confirmed that the patient's visual acuity was practically normal (O.D.: 1 and O.I.: 0.9).