A 47-year-old woman came to our service 3 months after discovering a tumor in the left preauricular region. The patient reports that the lesion had a sudden onset and progressive growth. She complains of pain in the left temporal, cervical and periocular region. The only notable medical history is essential arterial hypertension under treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, with no other relevant systemic alterations.
The physical examination revealed a nodule approximately 1.5 cm in diameter in the left preauricular region. On palpation, the tumor is soft, mobile and slightly tender to the touch. The maximum oral opening is 45 mm and there is joint clicking in both joints. The rest of the head and neck examination is unremarkable.
Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) reveal an image suggestive of a 1.8 × 1.7 × 1.4 cm cystic lesion adjacent to the upper border of the parotid gland. MRI shows a pedicle dependent on the left TMJ, with the position of the articular meniscus and displacement of the mandibular condyle with normal open and closed mouth.

A fine needle aspiration was performed, which was reported as a sample consisting entirely of proteinaceous material and histiocytes, compatible with a cystic lesion.
Given the findings obtained, surgical treatment is carried out through a preauricular approach, identifying the trunk of the facial nerve and its respective branches. After dissection of the facial nerve, it was decided to perform a superficial parotidectomy of the upper portion when multiple adhesions were found to the lesion, isolating the synovial cyst above the frontal branch of the facial nerve. Subsequently, the pedicle that communicates the cyst with the temporomandibular joint was visualized, proceeding to its ligation and subsequent resection. The wound was sutured in layers.

The surgical specimen obtained was fixed with 10% formalin. Histological sections stained with hematoxylin and eosin revealed a multilocular cystic lesion. To establish with certainty the presence of synoviocytes in the lining of the cyst, an immunohistochemical analysis is performed to confirm their existence.

During the patient's outpatient follow-up after 9 months of evolution, she has not shown postoperative complications or signs of recurrence.