A 24-year-old woman, native of the United States, weighing 70 kg and 175 cm, with no relevant history who came to the emergency room due to dry cough, chest discomfort, watery diarrhea and fever. Her examination revealed bilateral crackles and respiratory failure (basal oxygen saturation of 80%). The chest x-ray revealed interstitial infiltrates and bilateral pneumothorax with pneumomediastinum. In the analysis, she highlighted leukocytosis with a shift to the left (11,700 · 109 / L leukocytes, 81% neutrophils), CRP = 15.93 mg / mL and LDH = 1.154 IU / L. The following microbiological studies were performed, which were negative: two blood cultures, urine culture, antigenuria for Legionella and pneumococcus, throat swab for detection of Adenovirus, influenza A and B viruses, parainfluenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus, Coronavirus, Rhinovirus and Enterovirus and blood sample for the detection of HIV infection (anti-HIV antibodies and p24 Ag). With severe community-acquired pneumonia suspected, empirical intravenous (IV) treatment was initiated with ceftriaxone 2 g/24 h, levofloxacin 500 mg/12 h for three days, continuing with 500 mg/24 h and oxygen therapy. The patient was admitted to the ICU.
In the first 48 hours, the patient presented respiratory deterioration, requiring orotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation, therefore, on day +2, the IV antibiotic spectrum was expanded to meropenem 1 g/6 h, linezolid 600 mg/12 h, and amphotericin B. liposomal 300 mg/24 h (to cover histoplasmosis) and acyclovir 750 mg/8 h. The diarrhea was limited. Due to progressive deterioration, doxycycline 100 mg/12 h IV and methylprednisolone 60 mg/8 h IV were added on day +6 (due to the possibility of organizing pneumonia or vasculitis). The patient presented hemodynamic deterioration and progressive IR attributed to septic shock and nephrotoxicity, with a CLcr in 24-h urine of 9.4 mL/min (day +6), which was 106.5 mL/min on admission (estimated with the Cockcroft-Gault formula based on a serum creatinine of 0.9 mg/dL). The etiological study was expanded by determining autoantibodies to rule out autoimmune renopulmonary syndrome (anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic and anti-basement membrane antibodies were negative), determining galactomannan antigen in blood (negative) and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL). ), where new bacterial and fungal cultures (negative) and detection of viral antigens were requested, all negative except for the PCR for Adenovirus (result received on day +7). Given that it was the only microbiological isolation and given the etiological plausibility, it was determined as Adenovirus pneumonia with secondary acute respiratory distress syndrome. The serotype was not identified. Due to the patient's acute IR and the negativity of other isolates, liposomal amphotericin B and acyclovir were suspended, the rest of the antibiotic treatment was adjusted (meropenem 1 g/12 h IV and levofloxacin 250 mg/48 h IV)6, and Treatment was started with ganciclovir 200 mg/24 h IV (adjusted for renal function), waiting for improvement in CLcr to start cidofovir. Given the presence of oligoanuria, it was decided to start replacement renal support on day + 11 in the form of CVVHDF due to hemodynamic instability (desired loss volume of 100-160 mL/h, blood flow = 160 mL/min, effluent flow = 2 L/h; acrylonitrile hemofilter with surface area = 0.9 m2) with the corresponding dose adjustment of the antibiotic treatments (meropenem 500 mg/8 h iv and levofloxacin 250 mg/24 h iv)7.
Three days later, empirical treatment with doxycycline and linezolid was discontinued. After starting ganciclovir, lymphopenia, plateletopenia and progressive anemia accompanied by intraalveolar bleeding were observed, and hematotoxicity may have been enhanced by previous treatment with linezolid. Therefore, it was considered to start treatment with cidofovir even though there was no improvement in renal function. Given the contraindication of its use in severe renal failure and the lack of references to its use in HDFVVC in the technical sheet, a bibliographic search was carried out in Pubmed and Micromedex without finding any reference. It was finally decided, taking into account the patient's renal function and the nephrotoxic effect of cidofovir, to institute reduced-dose therapy according to the strategy of Brody et al., in patients undergoing high-flow hemodialysis, and to consider empirically for our patient a CLcr of 40-50 mL/min (0.57-0.71 mL/kg/min). Therefore, after obtaining informed family consent, an induction dose of 2.5 mg/kg (175 mg) was administered weekly for 2 weeks and every 15 days thereafter7. At the time of starting treatment (day + 13) the patient had a residual urine output of 300 mL/day.
To prevent nephrotoxicity, the usual treatment (hydration and probenecid) was performed. Throughout the treatment with cidofovir, the patient continued on hemodiafiltration and did not present any attributable adverse effects. On day + 17, a positive blood culture was observed for coagulase-negative Staphylococcus, and treatment was initiated with vancomycin 1 g/24 h (CLcr 40 mL/min). After three treatment doses, the plasma concentrations of this antibiotic were monitored, obtaining a minimum concentration of 13 mg/dL, in line with those expected with a CLcr of 40 mL/min, so the same dosage was continued.
After four doses of cidofovir, the PCR for Adenovirus was negative in BAL on day + 27. A lung biopsy was then performed where no signs suggestive of viral infection were observed, and antiviral treatment was suspended.
Despite the treatments instituted, the patient presented an unfavorable evolution, with refractory respiratory failure secondary to acute respiratory distress syndrome that required support with Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO), without further microbiological isolations, and increasing the fibrosis component in the lung parenchyma. objectiveized by transbronchial biopsy. The patient finally died after 52 days of admission.