A 70-year-old man with a personal history of prostate adenocarcinoma 7 years ago (T2a-b N0 M0), treated with androgen blockade, radiotherapy and brachytherapy. Surgically underwent appendectomy and tonsillectomy. Without taking regular medication, a relevant family history includes a sister with breast cancer and a brother with lung cancer.
He went to the Emergency Department due to sudden onset transfixive chest pain associated with vegetative courtship while doing agricultural work. During his stay in the Emergency Department he remained asymptomatic and hemodynamically stable with BP 133/74 and HR 64 bpm. On examination he had mucocutaneous pallor, cardiac auscultation with dull rhythmic tones without murmurs, the rest of the examination being normal. In the initial analysis, the blood count was normal with biochemistry and unremarkable coagulation parameters, D-dimer 189 ng/ml (0-275), B-type natriuretic peptide 80 pg/ml (0-100), troponin 0.008 ng/ml (0-0 .04). The initial chest within normality, with a discrete bilateral pleural effusion, the rest of the structures being normal. Given the findings of the imaging test, he was initially admitted to the Digestive System service where an ultrasound endoscopy was performed, visualizing a heterogeneous lesion posterior to the esophagus without depending on him, taking a biopsy with a negative result for neoplastic cells with hemorrhagic cytology. A bronchoscopy was performed, describing extrinsic compression at the level of the posterior wall of the distal third of the trachea and main bronchi, performing 3 punctures with abundant hemorrhagic material, with hemorrhagic cytology without neoplastic cells. A thoracotomy was considered to obtain samples. Given the absence of findings in the tests previously carried out, prior to surgery, an interconsultation was made with the Internal Medicine service, who, reviewing the clinical history since admission, found anemization in the first hours of admission (Hb 14.1 g/dl). and subsequently an Hb value of 11.2 g/dl, remaining stable. A new chest X-ray showed disappearance of the mediastinal widening with minimal persistence of pleural effusion. A diagnostic thoracentesis was performed with a negative result for neoplasia with hemorrhagic cytology. Given the initial symptoms and the results of hemorrhagic cytology and given the high suspicion of a vascular complication at the thoracic level, a new CT scan was requested and was reported as a small image with a hypodense and homogeneous appearance with an approximate caliber of 1.5 cm compatible with hematoma in the posterior mediastinum. in resolution. Angiography was performed where pseudoaneurysmal dilation of the bronchial artery at its origin was observed, proceeding to therapeutic embolization without incident.