A 64-year-old male patient, diagnosed in May 2014 with stage IV subcardial gastric adenocarcinoma with involvement of the esophagogastric junction (after cytology of ascitic fluid that was positive for malignancy). He receives the EOX regimen as first line of treatment: epirubicin 91.5 mg (50 mg/m2) + oxaliplatin 237.9 mg (130 mg/m2) every 21 days intravenously + oral capecitabine (650 mg/12 h).
After the administration of four cycles of chemotherapy, clinical improvement was observed which, after radiological confirmation, led to him undergoing surgery. A total gastrectomy was performed, with excision of a liver cyst and cholecystectomy. A month later he required a second intervention for bile leak and a month later he required the placement of a transparietal drain due to collection in the right hypochondrium.
The patient suffers a recurrence three months after undergoing the gastrectomy (four and a half months after finishing neoadjuvant chemotherapy), so it is requested, in the context of an expanded use program, to start a second line of treatment. with cycles, every 14 days, of paclitaxel 137 mg (80 mg/m2) on days 1 and 8 + ramucirumab 496 mg (8 mg/kg) on ​​day 1, intravenously.
In February 2015 he started ramucirumab and a month later he received six subcutaneous doses of 300 mcg of filgrastim (two consecutive doses weekly for three weeks). Five months into treatment, he was admitted to the hospital due to fever of unknown origin, probably tumor, for which he received naproxen (500 mg/12h orally) and dexamethasone (4 mg/12h intravenously) for 2 days.
Two days after discharge, he received cycle 12 of ramucirumab with paclitaxel and again went to the emergency room reporting sudden abdominal pain and rectal bleeding after the administration of the cycle. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) revealed splenic rupture and esophagojejunal perianastomotic fistula. He undergoes an emergency splenectomy and drainage of the fistula. During admission, he progressed poorly because he suffered several adjacent intra-abdominal collections and bilateral pleural effusion, requiring palliative care at home after being discharged a month and a half after admission.
The patient suffers two repeated admissions for bilateral pulmonary thromboembolism and respiratory infection that is treated with levofloxacin, 500 mg per day, and poorly controlled abdominal pain. After performing a new abdominal CT scan and with an elevation of the tumor marker (CA 19.9), he was diagnosed with intestinal obstruction secondary to peritoneal carcinomatosis, and was treated in the Palliative Care Unit. Given the patient's deteriorating situation, transfer to the Palliative Care Hospital was requested, where he died in the following months.