We present a six-year-old girl who consulted at the health center due to right knee pain without inflammatory signs or history of trauma. She was treated with ibuprofen and three months later she returned to the clinic with progressive pain and inflammation of the fifth metatarsal of the right foot, which limited her ambulation. Later, pain and swelling appeared on the back of the right hand. None of her symptoms were accompanied by previous flu processes, gastrointestinal infection or urinary symptoms and she was afebrile at all times. A week later she went to the clinic due to persistence of symptoms and functional inability to maintain standing.
Her personal history, family history, and her pregnancy were not of clinical interest. Her psychomotor development was normal. The patient had a weight of 23.5 kg, height of 122 cm, heart rate of 74 bpm and acceptable general condition. The examination revealed right knee with pain, inflammation and mobility limited to flexion due to pain at 90°, patellar ball and mild inflammation with pain in the fifth metacarpophalangeal bone of the right hand, and right foot with increased sensitivity to pressure in the base of the fifth metatarsal and local inflammation with pain, without deformity or crepitus. She without neurovascular deficit. The physical examination was normal; she did not have rashes, lymphadenopathy or visceromegaly. Radiographs were normal at all times.
Laboratory tests: mild thrombocytosis (425,000/µl), without leukocytosis or neutrophilia, C-reactive protein 13 mg/ml, erythrocyte sedimentation rate 52, antinuclear antibodies (ANA) positive at 1/160, rheumatoid factor negative, anti-DNA negative.
Arthrocentesis (biochemistry and culture) was performed, obtaining inflammatory fluid with 5360 cells/ml, glucose 69 mg/dl, proteins 5.4 g/dl and negative culture.
Treatment with ibuprofen was started at a dose of 200 mg every eight hours, waiting to be evaluated by the specialist, with slight improvement. An evaluation was requested by Pediatric Rheumatology, which expanded the analysis, performed an ophthalmological study and started treatment with deflazacort. The extended analysis offered negative results for anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies, ENA, HLA B27 and hepatitis B and C serology. The results were also normal in the thyroid tests, urinalysis and coagulation.
One month later, she was reviewed by Pediatric Rheumatology and was diagnosed with ANA (+) right knee arthritis and probable JIA, due to persistent inflammation and pain in the right knee and tarsus. The study was completed with foot ultrasound and infiltration with corticosteroids. The ultrasound was normal and showed good evolution after infiltration.