A 60-year-old woman diagnosed with BCR-ABL positive CML in January 2010. From diagnosis until April 2011, he received treatment with imatinib 400 mg/day with acceptable tolerance (moderate symptoms of fatigue, pain, burning and swelling in the legs, edema in the eyelids and appearance of whitish lesions in the nail bed) and a very rapid hematological response, with normalization observed. of the blood count in one week. In April 2011, given the progression of the molecular signal and the acquisition of the Y253F mutation in peripheral blood (PS) and bone marrow (BM), imatinib was replaced by dasatinib 100 mg/day. The Y253F mutation confers resistance to imatinib, intermediate sensitivity to nilotinib, and sensitivity to dasatinib. The patient had good clinical tolerance during treatment with dasatinib, except for the appearance of persistent cough and asthenia, achieving a major molecular response.
During treatment with dasatinib, the patient developed pancytopenia with blast infiltration of the BM, a diagnosis of lymphoid blast crisis was made and the T315I mutation in the ABL kinase domain was detected.
Once morphological remission of the blast crisis condition was achieved after the administration of induction chemotherapy with vincristine, daunorubicin, steroids and intrathecal prophylaxis and given the previous exposure to imatinib and dasatinib, the Hematology Service decided to start treatment with ponatinib in September 2012. Initially, the dose administered was 45 mg per day, which had to be reduced to 30 mg per day due to clinical intolerance, mainly musculoskeletal pain, asthenia and elevated blood pressure, which required adjustment of the antihypertensive treatment.
Currently, the patient maintains a complete hematological and molecular response with acceptable tolerance. She has recently been evaluated in the pre-transplant clinic of the Hematology Service for the possibility of consolidation with allogeneic HSCT from an unrelated donor, since she does not have an HLA-compatible sibling.