Three and a half year old male suffering from severe neurological damage secondary to perinatal acute ischemic stroke (CVA). He goes to consult with his mother, who tells us about unusual crying for a few weeks and the suspicion that the child has pain in his hands. He also tells us that the child has been receiving treatment with oral steroids for a few weeks, since in the follow-up of his neurological damage, when consulting about musculoskeletal symptoms, chronic idiopathic arthritis was suspected with a normal x-ray of the hands and wrists.
He is the only child of non-consanguineous parents. The father has had a bone problem in his wrists since childhood; He remembers having suffered from pain in his wrists when he was a child and tells us that he does not have the bones in his wrists, that he retains normal mobility and that it does not pose problems for him in his profession as a car driver.
The child's physical examination is conditioned by his neurological damage (he screams, without other types of language, and listens and pays attention when spoken to, smiling with caresses); he is not capable of ambulation without assistance; a left hemiplegia derived from his perinatal stroke and the data of spasticity. Somatometry shows a head circumference of 46 cm (< P3), a length of 104 cm (P25-50) and a weight of 16.5 kg (P50). Blood pressure values ​​are normal (111/66 mmHg). No dysmorphic features are seen. The child's repeated attempt to bite his right wrist is striking. There are no inflammatory signs and it is expressed with moans upon repeated mobilization of that right wrist. We did not see any involvement of other joints.
The father has a height of 180 cm, but his wingspan is reduced to 164 cm. His hand measures 18.7 cm in length (it is shortened by 4 cm for his height) with a third finger of 8.3 cm (normal). His paternal x-ray shows bilateral absence of the carpus.

The child's x-ray shows carpal lesions compatible with carpal osteolysis and unilateral tarsal scaphoid lesions.

We requested a consultation from the genetics service where the diagnosis of multicentric carpotarsal osteolysis of autosomal dominant transmission without nephropathy is studied and confirmed.