We present the case of a patient of 39 years of age, 59 kg and height 160 cm with a history of four spontaneous abortions of seven to ten weeks with a live embryo. The infertility studies performed were within normal limits, except for a diagnosis of heterozygous Factor V Leiden6. This alteration gives rise to a variant of human coagulation factor V that frequently causes an inherited hypercoagulability disorder, the most common among Eurasians. In these cases, the factor V Leiden variant cannot be inactivated by activated protein C. In pregnant women with this anomaly, prophylactic administration of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is recommended at therapeutic doses adjusted per kg of weight, as soon as the pregnancy is diagnosed and up to 6-8 weeks postpartum. It should be noted that in the last pregnancy the patient experienced an abortion despite being treated with LMWH, so the hematological origin of these is ruled out.
With the previous obstetric history (G4P0A4), the patient begins a new pregnancy with a therapeutic regimen of LMWH enoxaparin 40 mg/24 h, since she became aware of it. After five weeks, an immunological study is performed on the patient. The results show NK cell values ​​above normal, presenting 18% of peripheral NK cells and 95% of them with CD56+CD16 expression (17% of lymphocytes). According to the algorithm proposed by Ramos-Medina3 et al., for the patient's age, these values ​​represent a high risk of presenting an immunological alteration associated with reproductive failure. Based on the study carried out, they conclude that: a percentage of NK cells > 18% is the best variable to discriminate women with reproductive failure, and for women over 35 years of age, values ​​of CD56+CD16 cells above 13% define a subgroup. especially patients at high risk of pregnancy loss (100%).
The "off label" use of this drug is requested. After authorization by the center management and the surrogate's signature of the informed consent, the administration of the GI regimen collected in the literature begins. It starts with IGs 400 mg/kg of weight, every four weeks, from week 4 to week 13, once a month; subsequently, 200 mg/kg monthly until week 36, since it has been shown that IGs cross the placenta more intensely after the third trimester. After two doses of IGs, a new immunological study is requested in which a reduction of NK cells is observed to 8% with 90% CD56+CD16 markers (7.2% of lymphocytes). Figure 1.

The treatment was administered as scheduled without any relevant incidents or adverse effects with respect to the established IG regimen.
At week 40 + 1, the pregnant woman had a live birth, through an elective cesarean section. The LMWH thromboprophylactic regimen is switched to the day before the intervention and is suspended the same day. The therapeutic dose is restarted after 12-24 hours and is maintained for two months.