Patient H.V.P.D., 16 years old, presented with a chief complaint of difficulty speaking. During the physical examination, it was observed that the patient had tall stature, facial pattern III, with severe maxillary hypoplasia, dental crowding, Angle class III relationship, anterior open bite, bifid uvula and a macroglossia. In the collection of data during the anamnesis, it was also revealed that, at birth, the patient had a defect in the abdominal wall that was subsequently corrected. All of these findings contributed to the diagnosis of Beckwith-Wiedmann syndrome.

The patient was incorporated into orthosurgical treatment, with swallowing, phonation and breathing difficulties being observed, with a strong correlation with macroglossia. Therefore, a partial glossectomy surgical procedure was planned for this case, prior to the orthognathic surgery procedure. The technique used was the one proposed by Obwegeser et al. (1964)10, in which a resection of the central segment and the apex of the tongue was performed, which achieved a reduction in its dimensions in the anteroposterior and transverse sense, so that the problems related to speech were attenuated.
For adequate control of intraoperative bleeding and ease of execution, the surgery was performed under general anesthesia with orotracheal intubation, due to the presence of hypertrophy of the nasal turbinates that prevented the passage of the nasotracheal tube. To make the incisions, repair points were established with 2.0 cotton thread on the lateral and anterior extremities of the tongue and an Allis-type tissue grasping forceps was used to assist in the dissection. After stabilization, the incision was demarcated with methylene blue and local anesthetic infiltrations (2% lidocaine with epinephrine 1:200,000) were performed. The removal of the demarcated segment was performed with an electric surgical dissector (colrado needle, Stryker Corporation®) in the apex-base direction, preserving the lateral edges and minimizing the risk of injury to the branches of the lingual nerve. The segment was removed and careful hemostasis was performed to minimize the risks of tongue hematoma and postoperative bleeding. After bleeding control, the segments were approximated with resorbable thread (Vicryl 3.0-ETHICON) from the deepest portion to the superficial portion carefully in the base-apex direction. In the immediate postoperative period it was already possible to verify the anterior and transverse decrease of the tongue without compromising the airway, and without any complications of a hemorrhagic or infectious nature occurring. Ten days after surgery, the patient began speech therapy treatment to help the return of tongue motility and phonation.
Currently, the patient is 3 years postoperative and has a considerable decrease in the size of the tongue in the transverse and longitudinal sense, with no report of sensory or gustatory loss in the region. He is following speech therapy and orthodontic treatment with the purpose of performing a surgical procedure to correct the maxillomandibular discrepancy.