The patient is a 61-year-old man. His medical history included being allergic to clarithromycin, suffering from Barret's esophagus, essential tremor and chronic iron deficiency anemia. His mother died after renal carcinoma.
He underwent surgery in 2005 for renal carcinoma (p T3b Nx M1). At the time of diagnosis, he had bilateral adrenal metastases, a metastatic lesion at the lung level, and doubtful liver metastases. He underwent right nephrectomy and left adrenalectomy. Subsequently, he began a clinical trial with interferon and bevacizumab with partial response of the metastatic lesions.
In 2010, after the appearance of a parotid tumor, an ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration aspiration (FNA) was performed, compatible with metastasis of renal carcinoma.
To study the extent of the lesion, a cervical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed in which a tumor was visualized at the right parotid level that involved both the superficial and deep lobes and had a size of 2.6*3.4. *3.4cm and is compatible with a metastatic tumor.

The positron emission tomography (PET) performed reported a hypermetabolic lesion at the right parotid level compatible with a metastatic process.
After the study by our tumor committee, a radical parotidectomy was decided as the treatment of choice due to the involvement of both parotid lobes.

The pathological anatomy revealed a mass with a morphological and immunohistochemical pattern compatible with metastasis of renal clear cell carcinoma. For this characterization it was necessary to use cytokeratins, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), vimentin and cd10. Likewise, the involvement of deep vascular and nervous structures was revealed, so it was decided to perform postoperative radiotherapy.

In the postoperative period, the patient had an episode of seroma at the level of the surgical wound that resolved without complications. The postoperative evolution was favorable and he was discharged, with wounds monitored in outpatient clinics.