A 76-year-old patient underwent emergency surgery for a perforated cecum tumor that obstructed the terminal ileum. His personal history included ischemic heart disease with an AMI and an aortocoronary bypass 13 and 6 years ago, respectively. He underwent a right hemicolectomy and resection of 15 cm of ileum with reconstruction of the transit through an ileocolic anastomosis. The presence of a liver metastasis was observed in segment 8 with a size of 4 cm. He required a second intervention 4 days later for intra-abdominal abscess. The pathological study showed well-differentiated adenocarcinoma with 17 nodes free of tumor infiltration (T4N0M1).
The postoperative CT scan revealed a 3.5 cm solid nodular lesion in segment 8 of the liver. Postoperative QM with FOLFOX was performed with a decrease in the size of the lesion to 2.5 cm. Six months after surgery on the primary tumor, it was decided to perform laparoscopic RF of the liver metastasis, given the patient's high surgical risk.

The procedure was performed under general anesthesia and with the patient in a supine position. The trocar for access to the abdominal cavity and for the optics was located at the level of the epigastrium. An 11 mm trocar was used that was placed below the costal margin. The portable 7.5 Mhz laparoscopic ultrasound transducer was placed through the 11 mm trocar. No other metastatic lesion was observed on intraoperative ultrasound. Under ultrasound and laparoscopic control, the electrode was inserted into the center of the lesion and ablated with a target temperature of 105 ºC, a treatment time of 6 minutes, a power achieved of 150 W and correct ablation of the intrahepatic path. The RF electrode used was 25 cm long and had an ablation diameter of 4 cm. The lesion became hyperechoic after ablation and no residual lesion was noted.
There were no postoperative complications and the hospital stay was one day.
One month after RF treatment, a spiral CT was performed, revealing a hypodense lesion with absence of uptake, compatible with complete necrosis of the tumor lesion.