A 21-year-old male was admitted to the Neurosurgery Service due to nodules in the left parietal region that have increased in volume in the last 7 months.
Relevant personal history includes: moderate hemophilia A and surgical intervention for scaphocephaly in childhood (craniectomy+silicone bands+bone fixation with hemoclips). He presented spontaneous cerebral intraparenchymal hematoma that was treated conservatively. There are no known episodes of trauma.
The physical examination revealed a painless, non-pulsatile, elastic tumor with a smooth surface, covered with a normal scalp and measuring 5x3x3 cm. in the left parietal region. The neurological examination was normal.

Laboratory findings were: hemoglobin, 16g/dl; hematocrit, 50%; leukocytes, 6710, with a normal differential count; platelets, 211000; prothrombin activity, 97%; APTT: 59sec. Factor VIII: 19%.
The simple x-ray and CT of the skull showed an osteolytic lesion of sclerotic margins at the left parietal level with erosion of the external and internal table and expansion of the diploes. MRI reveals a well-defined parietal nodule on the same side, with different areas of signal inside, with hemoglobin in different stages of evolution: high signal density for methemoglobin and low signal density for deoxyhemoglobin.

The CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis, as well as the bone scan, ruled out tumor or bone metastasis. The patient received 50U/kg/d of Factor VIII prior to surgery which increased his Factor VIII level to 89% of normal. Throughout the operation he received a continuous intravenous infusion of 5U/kg/h of Factor VIII.

Surgical intervention
Under local anesthesia, a scalp incision was made on the tumor and by subperiosteal dissection, elevation and erosion of the external table was observed, the diploe containing cigatricial fibrous tissue around a hematoma in different stages of organization and, in addition, plastic tissue ( silicone bands). The internal board was thinned, with irregular bulging and a bone defect.
The hematoma, granular tissue and foreign body (silicone) were removed, as well as the thinned and elevated external table, until reaching bone of normal thickness and appearance through bone curettage.
Histological examination confirmed the presence of old hematoma and granulation tissue.
After surgery, Factor VIII remained at 80% of normal activity until the suture material was removed.