This is a 50-year-old woman who is an occasional smoker. Her personal history of interest included taking a nine-day tourist trip to the Rivera Maya (Mexican Caribbean), fifteen days before the onset of symptoms. During the trip, the patient, as she reported, suffered numerous mosquito bites. In the 48 hours prior to the consultation, the patient self-treated with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) as an antipyretic and as a symptomatic treatment of headache.
On physical examination, the patient was conscious, oriented and feverish (37.6ºC), BP=110/70. There was facial flushing and bilateral conjunctival injection as well as the presence of a hemorrhagic, symmetrical, maculo-papular rash on the trunk and extremities, especially on the lower extremities, where it was confluent, and which did not change with vitro pressure. In the rest of the device examination, only the presence of numerous lateral and retrocervical lymphadenopathy as well as preauricular lymphadenopathy was identified. The presence of meningism or hepatosplenomegaly was not observed.

The loop test (Rumpell-Leade) showed the appearance of more than 30 petechiae in the right antecubital fossa. A hematological examination was performed which showed: red blood cells 4.90x106/microL with hematocrit of 43% and normal platelets. In the white series, the count determined 7,700 leukocytes with relative lymphopenia (22%) and the presence of numerous activated lymphocytes. The ESR was 28 mm at the first hour, with CRP=6.62 mg/dL. Coagulation tests were normal for both routes. The biochemistry revealed a creatinine of 1.28 mg/dl with transaminitis of ALT = 78 U/L. The thick film and blood film were negative. Finally, in the immunological analysis, the following were determined: Negative AcIgM against CMV, Negative AcIgM against HBcAg, HBsAg and AgHBs, Negative AcIgM against P. falciparum and Negative AcIgM against dengue (IFI). In the thick film and blood film study, the presence of blood parasites was not detected.
The patient was diagnosed with classic dengue with probable criteria for grade 1 dengue hemorrhagic fever induced by ASA. After its withdrawal, the patient recovered completely in 10 days.