32-year-old female patient, referred to the pain unit consultation by the ophthalmology service, due to painful symptoms secondary to herpetic involvement of the ophthalmic branch of the V left cranial nerve, with poor response to treatment with tramadol (50 mg). /8 h) prescribed by the ophthalmology service.
Her history includes episodes of repeated keratitis and uveitis in the last 2 years, labeled as herpetic in origin.
In the first consultation (2001), the patient reported a condition of left eye pain that had been going on for about 3 months, with paroxysmal episodes that increased with certain stimuli such as wind, cold, or dry eyes. The physical examination does not reveal neurological deficits. The pain is rated by the patient with a value on the visual analogue scale (VAS) maximum of 7-8 (during paroxysms) and minimum of 2. The diagnosis was post-herpetic neuralgia of the ophthalmic branch of the V left cranial nerve.
Treatment was started with gabapentin and tramadol in progressive doses, without achieving good pain control and the appearance of side effects in the form of vomiting and drowsiness. A series of drug rotations (amitriptyline, topiramate) were performed at different doses that produced no improvement in pain or adverse manifestations.
Following the patient's acceptance, treatment with low-frequency electroacupuncture (EA) (2-4 Hz/s) was initiated; the intensity used was that accepted by the patient as tolerable. It was applied in biweekly sessions of 30 min duration. The points chosen were: yintai, bilateral taiyang, 18 bilateral ID, 4 bilateral IG, 3 bilateral H, initially combining it with gabapentin (300 mg/ 12 h).

After 6 EA sessions, the patient began to report better analgesic control and better drug tolerance, which is why gabapentin was increased (900 mg/24 h) and tramadol solution was added (25 mg every 6 hours). 8 h) only for management of paroxysmal seizures. EA sessions were held weekly. This was followed by better analgesic quality, but vomiting persisted. It was decided to discontinue tramadol and progressively increase gabapentin (2,400 mg/24 h) over 2 months.
With this new therapeutic plan, gradual control of paroxysmal crises was obtained, both in intensity, frequency and duration. After 3 months of clinical stability, the patient hardly reported continuous pain, the paroxysmal seizures had decreased in frequency and intensity, and she had better tolerance to drowsiness. Gabapentin was progressively tapered over 3 months until it was discontinued.
At the end of this period, the patient only reported paroxysmal seizures of lower intensity (VAS 4-5) and with interseizure intervals of 7-10 days. These were managed with low doses of tramadol solution (25 mg), which was effective for pain control, but was accompanied by a feeling of nausea, which is why the patient stopped using it. After a period of 6 months with weekly EA sessions and acceptable control of the condition, a gradual spacing of these sessions began.
Currently, the patient is undergoing treatment in our unit (last consultation January 2009), only with EA sessions every 30-45 days, without other types of medication, with adequate pain control. Attempts have been made to space acupuncture sessions every 60 days, but the analgesic control is of poorer quality.