An 11-year-old male patient who consulted due to left coxalgia of 2 years of evolution of mechanical characteristics that improved with rest. As a personal history, he had an Arnold-Chiari malformation, hydrocephalus associated with a Dandy Walker malformation treated with a ventriculo-peritoneal shunt valve, and epilepsy with partial seizures. Physical examination revealed gait dysfunction with antalgic lameness and limb adduction and lumbar hyperlordosis. The hip was flexed at 20° with a range of motion of 90° flexion, 20° external rotation, 10° internal rotation, and 20° abduction. The blood count, markers of acute phase of inflammation and rheumatological tests gave normal results. The simple x-ray showed slight regional osteopenia. CT scan, edema and discontinuity of articular cartilage with synovial hypertrophy.

An arthrocentesis was performed under fluoroscopy control with general anesthesia, but no synovial fluid sample was obtained. The study was complemented with arthrography, which confirmed the existence of severe chondrolysis. With a presumptive diagnosis of idiopathic chondrolysis, rest, unloading of the extremity with the use of canes and physical rehabilitation were prescribed.
One month later, a hip infiltration with hyaluronic acid was performed under radioscopic control. The evolution was torpid with persistence of symptoms despite the treatment performed. Ten months after diagnosis, gentle joint mobilization was performed under general anesthesia, confirming movement of the femoral head en bloc with the pelvis, which was assessed as fibrous ankylosis. Due to joint stiffness, the option of performing periarticular tenotomies was ruled out. From the year after diagnosis, the joint stiffness improved slightly, so the treatment was complemented with soft tissue traction, finding a favorable response in pain control and flexion attitude. The patient used traction at night on an outpatient basis, walked with English canes and continued with rehabilitation treatment for 6 months. After this treatment, the flexed attitude disappeared, and he was able to lead a normal life without physical activity or prolonged walking, which caused episodes of pain and limping.
Four years later, a concentric loss of 50% of the joint space was evident with effacement of the medial line and local osteopenia. The clinical evolution was favorable with disappearance of pain and almost complete spontaneous progressive recovery of function and mobility over a period of 6 years, as well as partial recovery of the joint space. The MRI then showed joint narrowing with subchondral lesions in the femoral head and acetabulum, without signal changes in the spinal cord on both sides of the joint, with a destructive process of the articular cartilage. MRI was not previously performed due to lack of availability at the center, but it would have been more appropriate to perform it to make a differential diagnosis.
The range of joint movement at the end of clinical follow-up was -10o for abduction, internal rotation and external rotation with a dysmetria due to shortening of 1 cm of the affected limb.
Currently, after 14 years of follow-up since the onset of symptoms, the patient leads a normal life, asymptomatic, Trendelenburg (-), symmetrical and painless mobility of both hips (RI 30o, RE 65o), with incomplete recovery of the joint space.