A 54-year-old male patient, smoker and moderate drinker, allergic to penicillins, with a history of episodes of maxillary sinusitis and pansinusitis. He was diagnosed with a plasmacytoma of the left frontal sinus after a sinus puncture biopsy in another hospital, where a surgical excision was performed through an incision at the level of the left eyebrow and an osteotomy of the anterior wall of the sinus. A fragment of the sinus cavity was obtained for pathological analysis confirming the presence of plasmacytoma. A histopathological analysis of the excised sinus mucosa was also performed, which was reported as a possible abscessed mucocele (mucopiocele).
He was subsequently referred to the Hematology Service of our Hospital for complementary treatment. In the bone scan, pathological deposit of the tracer was observed in the maxillary sinus, nasal bones and frontal sinuses, suspecting the presence of myeloma. Three cycles of chemotherapy were administered, separated by one month, consisting of vincristine, adriomycin and dexamethasone + Aredia (1st cycle); cyclophosphamide, etopoxide, dexamethasone + Aredia (2nd cycle); and cyclophosphamide, adriomycin, dexamethasone + Aredia (3rd cycle). Two days after completing the third cycle of chemotherapy treatment, an increase in the tumor was observed in the frontal region, with signs of local inflammation that had been evolving for 24 hours. On examination, a soft tumor was palpable at the frontal level that drained abundant purulent material through two holes located in the eyebrow, with headache and fever of 38ºC. Some samples were taken for culture and antibiogram (no microorganisms were isolated). The skull X-ray showed a radiolucent area at the level of the frontal bone. CT and MRI confirmed the presence of a thickening of the frontal bone and occupation of its cavities with a lytic area on the left side suggestive of osteomyelitis with areas of sequestration at the frontal level.

He was referred to our Maxillofacial Surgery Service and after evaluating the patient, it was decided to carry out surgical treatment. A butterfly wing incision was made in the glabellar region including the fistulous tract. After removing the flap, the frontal sinus that had lost the external table was visualized, cleaning and curettage was carried out and the walls of the sinus were milled with rotary material. A 50 cc graft was taken. of corticocancellous bone from the right proximal tibia using a trocar, which was mixed with a previously prepared PRP growth factor-rich fraction concentrate. 250 cc of venous blood was drawn to prepare PRP, which was centrifuged using a two-phase technique (Platelet Concentrate Collection System PCCS; 3i/Implant Innovations, Palm Beach Gardens, FL®), and the two fractions were separated. Before application, the PRP clot was activated using calcium chloride. In total, a mixture of 40 cc of material was obtained, with which both sinus cavities were completely filled. The surgical wound was sutured and plasma low in growth factors was placed on the scar.

The curettage material from both sinus cavities was sent for pathological analysis. The result reported the presence of mixed type inflammatory tissue with bone and soft tissue involvement, ruling out recurrence of plasmacytoma, making the diagnosis of chronic osteomyelitis of the frontal sinus.
The patient was discharged after five days of hospitalization without presenting symptoms or postoperative complications. There were no complications at the donor site, and the patient was ambulating upon discharge without discomfort. CT scans were performed six and twelve months after the intervention, in which complete filling of the sinus cavity was observed, with no signs of disease. The patient has not had swelling or suppuration at the frontal level, headaches or fever again. The aesthetic appearance of the surgical wound is very satisfactory.