This is a 35-year-old woman with a family history of Crohn's disease and no pathological history of interest or toxic habits who began with symptoms of abdominal pain in FID plus weight loss. She was studied on an outpatient basis and was diagnosed with Crohn's disease with ileal and ileocecal valve involvement (A1L1B2, Vienna 1998), according to clinical, endoscopic and histological criteria.
She was started on treatment with mesalazine and steroids with a good response. Due to corticosteroid dependence, she began treatment with azathioprine, remaining steroid-free and in complete clinical remission, presenting symptoms again two years later. She was prescribed the administration of infliximab, and 2 doses were administered. Antinuclear antibodies, chest x-ray, and viral serology were negative.
Two weeks later, she was admitted with a fever of 39ºC, pain, and difficulty moving her neck. The previous week she had presented general condition impairment and fever, undergoing outpatient treatment with azithromycin for three days. The physical examination revealed thinness (BMI 17), temperature 37 ºC, blood pressure 105/60, she was conscious and oriented, with a complete normal neurological examination, oral thrush, and normal cardiorespiratory and abdominal examinations. In the tests carried out, she highlighted normocytic anemia (9.9 g/dl of Hb), leukocytes 6,700 with 84% segmented, platelets 363,000. The sedimentation rate was 68. The biochemical parameters in the blood were normal except for GOT 87, GPT 51, gamma-GT 67 and total proteins, which were 5.8 g/dl with albumin of 1,400 mg/dl. Urine and sediment elemental tests were normal, as were chest and abdominal x-rays upon admission. A lumbar puncture was performed, and in the examination of the fluid a normal glucorrhachia was detected, a proteinuria of 102 mg/dl, 960 cells/mm3, 90% of which corresponded to polynuclear cells, a Gram stain in which no germs were observed and a positive culture. to Listeria monocytogenes, so the diagnosis of Listeria meningitis was reached, starting antibiotic treatment and suspending all immunosuppressive medication.
Five days after her hospitalization, she presented with an acute abdomen, showing intestinal peritonitis secondary to perforation of the preterminal ileum and ileal stenosis, with the rest of the small intestine and colon normal. Ileocecal resection and terminal ileostomy with ascending colonic mucosal fistula were performed. Granulomatous inflammation compatible with Crohn's disease was confirmed by pathological anatomy.
The evolution was favorable, completing antibiotic therapy with ampicillin and gentamicin for three weeks, with negative CSF at discharge. Azathioprine was reinstated once she was stable and the infectious condition was over, and she was discharged 21 days after her admission.