We present the clinical case of a 50-year-old woman, a tightrope walker by profession, with no personal history of interest, who progressively developed, over the course of about 10 years, a scalp malformation consisting of an irregular left frontal mass, approximately 12x11 cm in its main axes, pulsatile, with important development of the vascular network of the cranial shell, in charge of the superficial temporal arteries and their return venous branches. In the anamnesis, the patient remembers a traumatic history 12 years ago, with a frontal contusion, after which she suffered a significant bifrontal subgaleal hematoma, which resolved conservatively over the course of approximately two months. Apart from this incident, she does not report any other symptoms and the physical and neurological examination is normal. If a traumatic arteriovenous malformation is suspected, imaging tests are requested. In the brain MRI, no significant alterations were evident, and in the cerebral angiography of the territories of the internal and external carotid artery, a left frontal epicranial vascular nidus was demonstrated, with extracranial vascular contributions from both superficial temporal arteries, and contributions from the intracranial circulation by transosseous meningeal branches coming from the ethmoidal arteries and dependent in turn on the two ophthalmic arteries, left and right. Embolization was not carried out either of the branches coming from the intracranial contributions due to the high risk of amaurosis of one or both eyes, or of the extracranial ones, since resection of the AVM was considered possible through surgical intervention alone. A bicoronal incision was made, behind the nidus, bilaterally accessing the nutritional branches of the AVM, to first ligate and section them and thus reduce the blood supply to the lesion and make its resection possible with controlled bleeding. The nidus was located outside the pericranium and under the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and showed irrigation through the calvaria, from the intracranial branches evidenced by the previous angiography. Radiofrequency coagulation, both mono- and bipolar, and bone wax were used to control hemorrhage. The resection of all subcutaneous blood vessels was performed, and only in some isolated and specific areas were hair follicles evident. During surgery, it was necessary to transfuse with two concentrated red blood cells, and a blood recuperator (ORTHOPAT HAEMONETICS) was also used for better control of blood loss. The scalp was sutured in the usual way in planes and the skin was sutured with staples. During the postoperative period, there were no neurological complications and the wound healed adequately, without developing areas of necrosis or alopecia. The cosmetic result was excellent. After a year there has been no recurrence.