A healthy 24-year-old woman presented with gingival bleeding in her upper right teeth for the past 6 months. The patient also reported episodes of mild pain and a gradual deviation of the teeth. There were no signs of fever or pus.
A general systemic examination of the patient did not reveal any abnormalities. Local examination revealed a 1 x 3 cm diffuse inflammation in the socket corresponding to the upper right molars. The swelling was most prominent on the buccal aspect. The surface appeared rough and erythematous. There were no visible pulsations in the lesion. The aforementioned teeth deviated towards the palate. On palpation, the swelling had a hard consistency. The three affected teeth did not respond to heat, cold or electrical stimulation of the pulp. Orthopantomography was inconclusive. A contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan showed a soft tissue mass in the right maxillary alveolus, without bone erosion. Radiological examinations and routine hematological examinations, including coagulation tests, did not reveal any abnormalities.

Based on the clinical, radiological, and CT findings, a provisional diagnosis of giant cell lesion was made, and an incisional biopsy of the buccal gingiva was performed. Marginal increase in intraoperative bleeding was evident but was attributed to inflammation.
The pathological report of the sample revealed fibrovascular connective tissue with aggregates of numerous capillaries and dilated endothelial venules suggestive of AVM. After consultation with an interventional radiologist, resection of the lesion was decided and performed under general anesthesia. The only sample included buccal and palatal gingiva, alveoli, and the affected teeth. Hemostasis was achieved and the defect was closed by first intention by advancing the palate and buccal mucosa. The perioperative period and recovery were uneventful and comfortable for the patient.
The pathological analysis of the sample was very similar to that of the incisional biopsy and revealed numerous arterioles and venules interspersed between the bone trabeculae, which extended to the gingiva, suggesting arteriovenous malformation.

The patient was followed up for a period of 1 year without recurrence.