JL, a 46-year-old white woman, presented in February 2000 with facial asymmetry and difficulty using her lower prosthesis. She presented with an increase in left parasymphyseal volume of 1 year of evolution, slow growth and which had stabilized in recent months, and she did not remember any history of trauma in the area. The oral examination revealed a completely edentulous upper and lower patient. In the left anterior mandibular area, a mass was seen that expanded the vestibular and lingual cortex, covered by healthy mucosa in which telangiectasias were observed. On palpation, the limits were clear, there was crepitus of the vestibular cortex and perforation of the lingual cortex. The objective and subjective neurological examination confirmed that there was no involvement of the inferior alveolar nerve, Vincent sign (-).

The imaging examination revealed a radiolucent lesion with radiopaque areas inside, unilocular, approximately 6 cm in its greatest diameter, with defined and non-corticalized limits. The lesion extended from approximately the left premolar area to the right incisor area, crossing the midline. It deformed and thinned the mandibular basal area and displaced the inferior alveolar canal.

The protocol described above was implemented for the treatment of LCG. Two series of intralesional corticosteroids were performed. The first series was carried out between March and April 2000 and the 2nd series began in September 2000, 5 months after the completion of the 1st series.
Fifteen months after the start of treatment, in May 2001, because the lesion had not disappeared and the bone cortices did not allow the passage of the needle to attempt a new series of infiltrations, it was decided to perform surgical enucleation. Under general anesthesia and through an oral approach, the lesion was accessed. Contrary to what was expected, a bleeding, friable lesion corresponding to the macroscopic characteristics of the LCG was not found, but instead an increase in bone volume was found without clear limits with the normal bone structure. Surgical remodeling of the lesion was performed with drills.

Currently, the patient is clinically cured 39 months after the start of treatment and 24 months after surgical remodeling, without deviation of the facial midline and with a lower alveolar ridge suitable for the use of the prosthesis.