We present the case of a 55-year-old patient, who was referred to our chronic pain unit due to low back pain of more than 2 years' duration. The patient had undergone surgery 17 years previously for the implantation of a mitral valve prosthesis and since then had periprosthetic leak, with mild hemolysis, under treatment with iron, folic acid and anticoagulation with anticoumarins.
The subject reported continuous baseline pain in the lumbar area, of mild intensity, with a score of 3 on the visual analogue scale, with exacerbations up to a score of 8, predominantly nocturnal and almost daily in frequency. The pain was located in the thoracolumbar area with radiation to the inguinogenital area, more pronounced on the right side, but bilaterally affected. The duration of these episodes was variable, from minutes to hours, with the patient comparing it to a burning and aching sensation. He showed slight improvement with exercise. He did not report other symptoms, such as paresthesia or sleep disturbances.
On examination, he had no limitation of spinal mobility, he had mild pain on flexion and a negative arch sign, and non-painful palpation of the spinous processes. Trigger points were identified in the paravertebral area, most relevant in the muscles corresponding to the right quadratus lumborum muscle; Tests for involvement of the psoas and right sacroiliac joint were positive. He had no sensitivity impairment.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the thoracolumbar muscle spine reported "polydiscopathy with degenerative changes in L4-L5, L5-S1 (decreased signal intensity in T2 of the discs), without significant disc imprints on the spinal canal and signs of osteoarthritis dorsolumbar interapophyseal Hemoglobin was 10 g/dl.
The estimated clinical judgment was back pain and low back pain secondary to a myofascial syndrome and degenerative polydiscopathy. Medical treatment was instituted with pregabalin, tramadol and paracetamol; He received transcutaneous electrotherapy. Infiltration with corticosteroids and local anesthetic was performed in the trigger points corresponding to the right quadratus lumborum muscle and the bilateral lumbar facets; None of the therapeutic measures improved low back pain. He was then treated with transcutaneous fentanyl; The patient noticed a slight improvement.
The subject was reevaluated after 3 months of treatment. In the analysis, an increase in the parameters measuring hemolysis was observed: decrease in hemoglobin (9.6 g/dl), hemoglobinuria 250 erythrocytes/field, elevation of lactodehydrogenase (LDH 4,806 U/l) and total bilirubin 4.38 mg/field. dl. Echocardiography revealed ventricular dilation and severe mitral stenosis with perivalvular leak and high pressure gradient. The patient was referred to the cardiovascular surgeon and underwent surgery to replace the malfunctioning prosthetic valve.
After the intervention, one year later, the patient remains free of lower back pain.