A 65-year-old male, wearing a spinal cord stimulation electrode (MSE) system to control pain secondary to ischemia due to peripheral arterial disease and induction of vasodilation. Despite therapeutic efforts, the poor evolution of the disease forced an amputation of the right lower limb to be performed in November 1998. The following month, the patient began to report symptoms compatible with phantom limb pain.
He was started on double anticonvulsant therapy, antidepressants and minor analgesics and adjustment of the EEM parameters. The pain was partially controlled, but episodes of lancinating pain persisted with a visual analogue scale (VAS) = 8.
In 2005, the patient was referred to the consultation preferably by the digestive medicine service, due to being a carrier of EMS and the possible implication for the management of a scalpel with diathermy for endoscopic polypectomy.
Following the specifications of the supplier, the digestive service is informed of the impossibility of using short-wave diathermy and microwave diathermy, since it could cause heating of the electrode interface in the tissue, potentially causing damage. Therefore, the use of bipolar electrocoagulation was recommended. The digestive service commented that endoscopic polypectomy cannot be performed with bipolar electrocautery; Furthermore, after consultation with the general surgery service, it was considered that a total colectomy should only be performed after biopsy and pathological identification of the lesions.
Given this clinical situation, it was decided to assess the real effectiveness of the EEM after 7 years of operation and, in case of ineffectiveness, to proceed with its removal so that endoscopic polypectomy could be performed using routine diathermy. For this purpose, the EEM was turned off and the patient was scheduled for evaluation after 1 month.
At this appointment the patient evaluated his baseline pain with a VAS = 4 with paroxysmal pain episodes of VAS = 7. His degree of disability was similar whether the electrode was on or off. After 6 months of follow-up with the electrode turned off and without changes in the clinical situation, it was decided to remove the EEM and proceed to endoscopic polypectomy.
The phantom limb pain worsened over the years and with partial response to anticonvulsants and antidepressants. The patient continued with a baseline VAS of 4 and increasingly frequent episodes of lancinating pain of 10. Regarding his quality of life, the Lattinen index offered a value of 12 and, in addition, the patient was depressed and affected his family life.
Given this situation, it was decided, after reviewing the literature, to schedule him for continuous infusion of ketamine at a dose of 0.4 mg/kg in 60 min, in daily sessions for 1 week. 1 mg of midazolam was administered as premedication.
The only adverse effects reported by the patient during the infusions were dizziness and somnolence.
The patient was evaluated at one week, at 3 and at 6 months, with a VAS at 6 months of 0 at rest and with a decrease in episodes of lancinating pain of less than 2 per week, with a VAS in these episodes. of 6 and that last a maximum of 10 s, Lattinen of 5 and a very important improvement in mood. He was discharged from the unit after one year of follow-up, given the almost complete abolition of the condition without medication.