We present the case of a five-month-old infant who consulted for progressive irritability of ten days' duration. She associates some isolated vomiting, without fever or changes in urine or stools. In recent days she began to experience abdominal distension and on the same day of the consultation she presented an expulsion of purulent exudate from the navel, which is why she was referred from the Primary Care consultation to the Emergency Service.
She was a full-term newborn with a weight appropriate for gestational age. She had a controlled pregnancy, without infectious risk factors. The neonatal period passed without incident.
She noted omphalorrhexis at 14 days of age, with a small residual granuloma that required cauterization with silver nitrate on two occasions. There was no history of wet umbilicus.
Upon her arrival at the emergency room, her physical examination revealed a red tumor with spontaneous expulsion of pus in the navel. Adjacent area bright and distended, without erythema or other inflammatory signs. The rest of the examination was compatible with normality. She had vital signs with: temperature 36.1°C, heart rate 139 bpm, blood pressure 98/51 mmHg, and oxygen saturation of 100% on room air.

An analytical control was performed with a blood count, where she presented leukocytosis with a normal formula and biochemistry with C-reactive protein (CRP) of 44 mg/l. A sample of umbilical exudate was collected for culture and intravenous antibiotic treatment with cloxacillin and gentamicin was initiated.
Twenty-four hours after admission, an abdominal ultrasound was performed, showing a heterogeneous collection measuring 5.5 × 2.5 × 2.4 cm adjacent to the upper area of ​​the bladder towards the umbilicus, with a diagnosis of probable kidney cyst. infected urachus. Subsequently, Staphycoccus aureus was isolated in exudate culture, maintaining treatment with cloxacillin with good evolution, disappearance of inflammatory signs and purulent secretion. She was discharged six days after admission, with follow-up by Pediatric Surgery.