A 34-year-old woman, 18 weeks pregnant, who came to the emergency room because during an episode of hyperemesis gravidarum with projective vomiting, she suddenly presented right supraorbital swelling with ocular proptosis and visual alterations in the right eye. The patient had no personal history of interest, she was not taking any regular medication nor had she previously suffered any trauma.
The ophthalmological examination revealed the presence of exophthalmos with hypophthalmos of the right eye, 7 mm right mydriasis with decreased pupillary reactivity, limitation of supraduction and supraversion with diplopia, myodesopsias and upper eyelid edema that was painful on palpation. Fundus examination was normal with intraocular pressure of 24 mmHg. No edema or vascular abnormalities were observed in the conjunctiva.

Because the patient was pregnant, an urgent orbital magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was requested, the findings of which were compatible with the diagnosis of right extraconal intraorbital hematoma. A blood analysis based on routine hemogram, biochemistry and coagulation did not show any alteration that could have precipitated the condition.
Given the clinical repercussion and the alterations, which were increasingly evident in the patient's vision, it was decided to undergo urgent surgery to evacuate the hematoma and decompress the orbit under general anesthesia. A right upper blepharoplasty approach was performed, dissecting the orbicularis oculi muscle and the periosteum, until the supero-external orbital bone rim was reached. When the periosteum was incised at the level of the orbital aspect of the frontal bone, clots and blood were released under pressure from the extraconal hematoma. After evacuation of the hematoma, no bleeding points were observed in any vessel in the region. A fine Penrose-type drain was placed and treatment for hyperemesis gravidarum was instituted with pyridoxine 10 mg/8 h iv + thiamine 100 mg/24 h iv + metoclopramide 10 mg/8 h iv.

The patient evolved favorably after surgery, the mydriasis and visual alterations disappeared in the first postoperative hours, and the drainage was removed after 48 hours. Currently, 3 months after surgery, the patient is asymptomatic and without sequelae.