A 73-year-old woman with high blood pressure, osteoarthritis of both hips, chronic lymphoid leukemia, operated left cerebellopontine angle meningioma, segmental resection of the sigmoid colon due to diverticulitis and peritonitis, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, aortic stenosis and hypertensive heart disease receiving treatment with Manidon retard®, Ameride® and Sintrom®. She had numerous recurrent episodes of gastrointestinal bleeding in the form of melena and rectal bleeding since April 2006. There were no significant abnormalities in platelet number or function. Sintrom was withdrawn in September 2006. Bleeding resulted in: 9 hospital admissions, 4 colonoscopies, 4 gastroscopies, 2 capsule endoscopy examinations and a double balloon enteroscopy with oral and anal access. With these endoscopic examinations, the diagnoses of xanthomas and petechial red spots of the jejunum and ileum treated with argon, a small excised hyperplastic gastric polyp and small angiodysplasias in the ascending colon also treated with argon were reached. The patient received subcutaneous octreotide at a dose of 0.1 mg every 12 hours, which was not well tolerated and was discontinued. Hormonal treatment was discarded due to the greater risk of inducing vascular thrombosis given the patient's lymphoproliferative disease. Despite endoscopic and medical treatments, digestive bleeding persisted and until March 2008, 24 packed red blood cells were required. Then the use of thalidomide was proposed at a dose of 300 mg per day in two doses. After the evaluation of the patient by hematologists and neurologists and an electromyogram study and the explanation to the patient of the precautionary measures that she should take (regarding the exclusive personal use of thalidomide), its compassionate use was requested from the Ministry of Health. In the first 2 months of treatment, the patient had occasional rectal bleeding and the transfusion of another 3 packed red blood cells was necessary. In the subsequent 4 months, no new transfusions or admissions have been necessary due to new episodes of digestive bleeding. Thalidomide has been well tolerated. Since receiving treatment, the patient has presented blurred vision due to cataracts and edema in the lower limbs related to her heart disease, both unrelated to thalidomide.