62-year-old woman, hypertensive and hypercholesterolemic, undergoing pharmacological treatment. Diagnosed with stage IV colon adenocarcinoma with multiple liver metastases. In chemotherapy treatment with mFOLFOX 6 + Bevacizumab regimen (oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 i.v. day 1, leucovorin 200 mg/m2 i.v. day 1, 5-FU 400 mg/m2 bolus i.v. day 1, 5-FU 1,200 mg/m2/day in continuous infusion for 48 hours and bevacizumab 5 mg/kg i.v. day 1) with good tolerance, except for neurotoxicity caused by the suspension of oxaliplatin after cycle 15. It begins with a sudden onset of pain and stinging in the right costal region, with painful bullous lesions, metameral in distribution, ulcerated and suppurative. He consults his primary care doctor, who institutes treatment for VZV with brivudine (Nervinex® 125 mg tablets) 1 tablet/24 ​​hours PO for 7 days, of which he performs only 4 when the treatment is replaced by famciclovir. Chemotherapy is postponed until the lesions improve, receiving the next cycle 4 days after completing treatment with brivudine. After eleven days, he went to the emergency room with abdominal pain with expulsion of melenic stools, pain in the oral cavity and dysphagia. Upon arrival at the emergency room, he is afebrile, with blood pressure of 101/68 mmHg, heart rate of 79 bpm, and baseline oxygen saturation of 100%. The blood count shows marked leukopenia, with neutrophil counts of 50/µl, and thrombopenia (61 χ 103 platelets/µl). Respiratory and contact isolation was established. Serum therapy and treatment with broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotics were initiated (meropenem plus vancomycin, later amikacin, acyclovir and fluconazole were added, which was replaced by caspofungin after 7 days of treatment due to fever and sustained neutropenia). Despite the treatment, he had frequent fever spikes, so repeated blood cultures were performed, which were sterile, as well as determinations of antimycelium antibodies, β-glucan and galactomannan, which were negative. Granulocytic colony-stimulating factors (filgrastim) were administered, 2 platelet concentrates were transfused, and total parenteral nutrition was instituted. For the treatment of pain, analgesia was prescribed with morphine, adjuvant treatment with NSAIDs, topical application of 2% viscous lidocaine and sucralfate for oral lesions. Topical treatment of herpetic lesions on the right side was done with 0.1% zinc sulfate promotions. On physical examination, notable generalized skin pigmentation and alopecia were noted, both related to 5-FU toxicity. Despite the established support measures, there was a worsening of the general condition, with abundant respiratory secretions, poor pain control, and no hematological recovery (last analysis: platelets = 51 χ 103 µl; neutrophils = 370/µl). The patient died due to acute respiratory failure due to sepsis of respiratory origin.