A 71-year-old woman with a history of high blood pressure, kidney transplant and choledocholithiasis, who went to the Emergency Department with a 24-hour history of fever, more intense abdominal pain in the left iliac fossa, watery diarrhea without pathological products, and food vomiting. occasional.
On examination, the patient had a low-grade fever and was hemodynamically stable, well hydrated, eupneic, and normal in color. Her abdomen was soft and depressible, with pain on deep palpation, without clear focalization and without signs of peritoneal irritation.
As complementary tests, an analysis was performed that showed slight leukocytosis (10,200/μl) with a CRP of 2 mg/dl, neutrophilia, and a simple abdominal x-ray that was normal. Given the suspected diagnosis of acute diverticulitis, an abdominal computed tomography was performed where some diverticula were observed in the small intestine, revealing a 16 mm diverticulum in the jejunum, with inflammatory signs and a foreign body of high density and morphology inside. "Y", suggesting an animal bone as the first diagnostic possibility. Adjacent to the diverticulum, a millimeter bubble of pneumoperitoneum and inflammation of the adjacent fat were also observed, these findings being compatible with acute perforated diverticulitis of the small intestine with a foreign body inside the diverticulum.

With these results and given the patient's acceptable general condition, she was admitted to the ward for treatment with digestive rest, broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotic therapy (Imipenem 500 mg every 6 hours) and observation. During her stay, the patient's fever improved but abdominal pain persisted, so a planned surgical intervention was decided.
During the intervention, multiple diverticula were evident at the jejunum level, one of them with inflammatory signs, but without intra-abdominal abscesses. The gallbladder appears distended and the common bile duct shows a diameter greater than 1 cm. Intestinal resection was performed with reconstruction through side-lateral anastomosis, cholecystectomy and bile duct exploration after confirmation of choledocholithiasis by cholangiography, removing the stone and leaving a 4 mm Kehr drain in the common bile duct.

The immediate postoperative period was uneventful, and the diet was reintroduced with good tolerance and digestive transit. A trans-Kehr cholangiography was performed, which showed the absence of choledocholithiasis. On the tenth postoperative day, the patient began to experience sudden abdominal pain, associated with hypotension and elevated pancreatic enzymes, and she was transferred to the ICU with the diagnosis of moderate acute pancreatitis, dying 24 hours later as a result of multiple organ failure.