An eight-year-old boy from Sierra Leone who consulted the Saint John of God Hospital in Sierra Leone for a tumor in the lower eyelid of his left eye that had been present for about a month. The father reported a history of contact with papaya leaves.
During the examination, he had a hard tumor that occupied the outer two thirds of the left lower eyelid, with ulcerations on the skin surface and in the mucosa of said eyelid. There were also lymphadenopathy on both sides of the neck. The rest of the examination did not present relevant data.

The impossibility of carrying out microbiological cultures in the field forced the administration of systemic and local antibiotic coverage as the first therapeutic option in case it was an infectious process. Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid was administered orally, and topical tobramycin and acyclovir were administered. But the symptom that stood out the most was the stony consistency of the tumor, along with the regional lymphadenopathy that suggested a neo-formative process. Finally, contact with papaya made us consider the possibility that it was contact dermatitis due to the latex that these fruits exude when they are green1. A skin biopsy was performed and sent to a referral hospital.
The pathological study showed an exudate with fibrin and polynuclear cells in the superficial area of ​​the ulcer and a granulation tissue in the deep regions, where histiocytes with herpetic-type intranuclear inclusions and giant multinucleated cells with nuclei containing intranuclear inclusion bodies were identified. The skeletal muscle from the deepest area of ​​the biopsy showed a non-specific focal inflammatory reaction. PAS staining was negative. The diagnosis was: ulcerated lesion with characteristics compatible with herpes virus infection, accompanied by probably bacterial superinfection.

After three weeks, the lower eyelid tumor began to decrease in size, as did the induration, while the ulcerations healed. After a month and a half, the repair was complete.