A 56-year-old Caucasian woman was referred to the oral and maxillofacial surgery clinic presenting with progressive dysphagia of 6 months' duration. She also reports a foreign body sensation that is accentuated at the time of swallowing. Her personal history includes psychomotor retardation with a borderline IQ situation and functional limitation in the right lower limb. She has short stature and hypothyroidism that has never been assessed.
During the intraoral examination, a violaceous, vascularized, hard, and painless tumor was vaguely observed on palpation in the lingual midline behind the foramen caecum. The visible tumor surface does not present ulcerations. No cervical lymphadenopathy was palpable. An MRI was requested showing a uniform mass at the base of the tongue measuring approximately 5 x 4 cm compatible with lingual thyroid with severe airway obstruction. The study is completed with an isotopic scintigraphy with Tc99 where marked uptake is seen at the base of the tongue without uptake in the usual hyoid prelaryngeal position. She was referred to the endocrinologist to control her thyroid function and with the diagnosis of presumed lingual thyroid, surgical intervention was decided given the progressive obstructive dysphagia.

Under general anesthesia, a tracheostomy is initially performed to adequately secure the airway given the significant size and posterior location of the tumor at the base of the tongue. A median suprahyoid cervicotomy is performed combined with deperiostization of the mandibular lingual table and subsequent lingual pull-through that expands surgical control at the time of resection. Given the posterior and deep tumor situation, it is necessary to perform a bloodless median glossotomy that allows complete tumor excision under direct control without associated injury to vital adjacent structures. Finally, the boarding routes are closed by plans.

The patient presented an excellent evolution and was decannulated in the immediate postoperative period.
Pathological anatomy confirms the diagnosis of lingual thyroid. The control MRI revealed the absence of lingual thyroid tissue.

She is followed in periodic check-ups by us and by the endocrinologist with control of her baseline hypothyroidism.