A 34-year-old male, smoker of 15 cigarettes a day, with a history of peptic esophagitis, hiatal hernia and non-allergic bronchial asthma. Diabetic father. Symptoms of intense abdominal pain in the left flank, pasty stools and increased abdominal sounds, which are evaluated in primary care, initially interpreting the condition as possible acute gastroenteritis. The examination showed slight pain on palpation in the left abdomen and a slight increase in peristalsis. If pain persists, various complementary tests are requested.
While awaiting further evaluation, 10 days after his visit to primary care, he went to the hospital emergency department due to another episode of intense abdominal pain in the left flank, accompanied on this occasion by diaphoresis, nervousness and skin pallor. Evaluated three times in emergency services, he was diagnosed and treated for renal colic. Blood pressure 136/95 mm Hg; heart rate: 89 l/min; temperature: 37.7o; sweaty. On abdominal examination, there was pain in the left flank with positive left renal succussion. The rest of the physical examination is normal. Chest and abdominal radiographs are normal. Minimal leukocytosis (10,500), mild hyponatremia and CRP=13 were observed.
As there was no clinical improvement with symptomatic treatment, an abdomino-pelvic ultrasound was performed which revealed a tumor in the left adrenal gland. After this result, a CT scan was requested, which revealed a 6.5 cm diameter mass dependent on the left adrenal gland, which suggested a differential diagnosis between pheochromocytoma or adrenal carcinoma.

After this result, he was referred to the Urology service and from there to the Internal Medicine service for a functional study, in an attempt to rule out pheochromocytoma. Determination of metanephrines and catecholamines in urine shows a reading of more than five times the normal value for total metanephrines in urine and for urinary free catecholamines. A diagnosis of a functioning left adrenal mass was made, with marked elevation of metanephrines due to probable pheochromocytoma. Once the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma was made, it was decided to perform laparoscopic total left adrenalectomy after blocking with dosazoxin 4 mg/day. The pathological analysis of the surgical findings demonstrates that it is a malignant pheochromocytoma measuring 130 g and 6 x 6 cm, with extensive necrosis, marked cellular pleomorphism, abundant atypical mitoses (<50 x 10 cga), capsular invasion and a tumor thrombus in one large caliber vein (the clamped vein), without extra-adrenal extension. The intraoperative period passes without complications. Throughout the process the patient has normal blood pressure levels with good general condition, and no treatment is carried out.