The case of a 32-year-old male (78 kg, 179 cm), without drug allergies, with a history of inguinal herniorrhaphy and without any treatment, a military man, who suffered a crush during his work day after an unexpected fall from a metal structure is presented. of approximately 1,500 kg. He was evacuated by land ambulance with advanced life support capacity to the "Gómez Ulla" Central Defense University Hospital without loss of consciousness and with both respiratory and hemodynamic stability.
In the Emergency Department, the secondary evaluation was carried out, a blood sample was extracted (highlighted CPK 2,295 U/l and myoglobin 469 ng/ml with the rest of the hemogram, biochemistry and hemostasis parameters within normal limits), chest x-ray compatible with mild pulmonary contusion without pelvic rib fractures and cervical and abdominopelvic CT scan showing fracture of the left ischiopubic ramus without displacement, 10 mm diastasis in the upper portion of the right sacroiliac joint with small bone avulsion of the superomedial iliac edge, and decreased thickness of the interbody spaces at L4-L5 and L5-S1 accompanied by small diffuse disc prominence at L4-L5.

Being diagnosed as having multiple contusions, he was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit with GCS of 15 points, symmetrical reactive pupils, without neurological focality, with good respiratory dynamics, oxygen saturation within normality, perfused, normotensive and normocardial, without signs of peritoneal irritation. and absence of macroscopic hematuria, so after 24 hours it was decided to discharge him to the hospital ward.
On the hospital ward, the patient progressed satisfactorily, with blood tests on the sixth day of admission being notable as an elevation of liver enzymes appeared (GOT 134 U/l, GPT 91 U/l, BT 1.2 mg/dl, BD 0.5 mg/dl) who was diagnosed by the Gastroenterology Service as having probable acute toxic liver disease without liver failure not accompanied by hepatomegaly or jaundice.
Fifteen days after suffering the accident and after clinical improvement and recovery of normal analytical values, the patient was discharged from the hospital, recommending periodic check-ups by the Traumatology Service.
During his admission, the patient presented pain of variable intensity (VAS 2/10, 3/10, 7/10 and 1/10 during his stay in the Emergency Room, ICU, Hospitalization Room and upon discharge, respectively), with sharp, localized characteristics. in the right thoracic region, right pelvis and gluteal region, not irradiated, which increased with sitting and decreased in the supine position without causing vegetative symptoms. He fell asleep satisfactorily and slept uninterrupted for approximately 8 hours a day. He presented slight dysthymia, probably due to not being able to be with his family who lived in Colombia.
The analgesic treatment administered during evacuation to the hospital was: fentanyl 100 µg, in the ICU: paracetamol 1 g/8 h i.v. and dexketoprofen-trometamol 50 mg/8 h i.v., during the first 6 days in the hospitalization ward: paracetamol 1 g/8 h p.o. and dexketoprofen-trometamol 50 mg/8 h p.o. and finally until discharge: dexketoprofen-trometamol 50 mg/8 h p.o. was administered. and fentanyl 400 µg transmucosal 30 minutes before performing any potentially painful movement (showering, performing a standing X-ray...).