A 27-year-old pregnant woman, with positive blood group A, with a personal history of meningitis at age 3, curettage due to molar pregnancy (G1P0A1) in her first pregnancy in 2005 and smoker of 10-20 cigarettes/day. No previous transfusion history.
In the ultrasound performed at week 35 of gestation, bilateral fetal hydrocephalus and oligohydramnios were detected, so a cesarean section was scheduled for week 36. The previous analytical study revealed positive serology (IgM) for Parvovirus B19. The examination of the newborn after the cesarean section revealed a good general condition, with an Apgar test of 8 and 9 points in the 1st and 5th minute, respectively, small hematomas on the left shoulder and buttock, macrocephaly with anterior fontanel tension and prominence of the cephalic veins. The blood count revealed severe thrombocytopenia (9 x 109/L). Given the clinical suspicion of TFNA, an aliquot of irradiated apheresis platelet concentrate, of unknown HPA-1a phenotype, was transfused and treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIG) was started at a dose of 1 g/kg x 2 days, with a very good response ( platelets > 100 x 109/L, which were maintained throughout the admission). An immunohematological study was requested from the Navarra Blood Transfusion Center, as well as a search for platelets from an HPA-1a negative donor.
The brain ultrasound revealed severe hydrocephalus secondary to intraventricular hemorrhage, which required the placement of an external shunt catheter, through which hemorrhagic cerebrospinal fluid was collected under pressure. He presented a later torpid evolution, with ventriculitis and seizures, which required treatment with antibiotics and phenobarbital, respectively, and implantation of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt valve. During her admission, an aliquot of leukodepleted and irradiated packed red blood cells was transfused.
The immunohematological study carried out at the Navarra Blood Transfusion Center confirmed the negative HPA-1a phenotype in the mother and positive in the neonate, as well as the presence of antibodies with anti-HPA-1a specificity in the maternal serum as well as in the newborn.