This is a 57-year-old patient with a history of ductal carcinoma of the left breast diagnosed in 1999 and ductal carcinoma "in situ" of the right breast in 2002, with no evidence of recurrence since then, and a worker in a hospital laundry as an ironer. The patient has never smoked, but she lives in a 65 square meter apartment with her husband, a smoker of 30 cigarettes a day (black variety), with whom she has lived for 35 years, her son and her daughter. , both also smokers. Her son is a smoker of 20 cigarettes a day, with whom she has lived for 31 years; and her daughter is a 10-cigarette-a-day smoker, with whom she has lived for 25 years. Everyone was smoking inside the apartment, no one went out to the terrace to smoke.
Consultation due to frank hematuria that is related to mechanical lumbar pain. The physical examination did not reveal any relevant data; no mass was palpable in the renal fossae. Urine culture, ultrasound and analysis (hematology and general biochemistry) are requested. The blood tests were normal, except for proteinuria, and the urine culture was negative. The ultrasound was reported as "without significant alterations, except slight ectasia in the right upper calyceal group." We decided that given hematuria with positive proteinuria (confirmed in 24-hour urine), we would refer him to the Nephrology service to complete the study and follow-up.
A second ultrasound was performed, resulting in the same conclusion as the first (performed 6 months apart), as well as an intravenous urography where pyelocalyceal and right ureteral dilation was visualized. The same findings are found in Computerized Tomography (CT), without observing an obstructive cause that justifies this dilation. In the third ultrasound (months later) echogenic content is seen in the pelocalyceal system of the right kidney, therefore requesting CT again, where an image with soft tissue density is found that affects the upper infundibulum and renal pelvis in its intrarenal portion. producing dilation of the upper calyx. The lesion captures and is compatible with transitional cell carcinoma in the right collecting system, upper infundibulum and part of the renal pelvis. Urine cytology tests were positive. The patient underwent right laparoscopic nephrectomy and ureterectomy.

The pathological anatomy confirmed transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis, with foci of mucinous carcinoma that affects the pelvis, infiltrates the parenchyma and respects the ureteral edges, theoretical stage pT3. Almost two years later, a chest CT confirmed space-occupying lesions in the liver compatible with liver and bone metastases.