A 49-year-old male patient was referred to our center after undergoing extraction of an included third molar in the fourth quadrant and curettage of granulation tissue at the apical and distal level of the extracted tooth. As personal history of interest, the only thing worth highlighting is a smoking habit of 35 pack-years and alcohol consumption of 150g/d. Regarding family history, the death of his father from colon cancer stands out. The symptoms on physical examination were pain and inflammation in the region of tooth 48 that had been going on for several months, which did not improve after the extraction of said tooth, also presenting a bulging of bone consistency on palpation through the vestibular area of ​​the fourth quadrant and with a strictly mucosa. normal on physical examination.

After analyzing the tissue extracted during the extraction of tooth 48 by the Pathological Anatomy Service, it was reported as Squamous Carcinoma along with well-differentiated cells. A clinical-radiological extension study was carried out at the level of the head and neck, where a destructive neoformative lesion was confirmed in the computed tomography affecting the body and mandibular ramus and multiple right cervical lymphadenopathy at all levels, at the thoraco-abdominal level it was not found. evidence of distant neoplastic pathology, with the general blood analysis showing no alteration of any of its parameters.
The case is discussed in the Functional Head and Neck Unit (UFCC) of our center and is classified as a T2N2bM0 and a radical surgical treatment is decided along with radiotherapy treatment using a three-field isocentric technique and concomitant chemotherapy.
A segmental mandibulectomy was performed from tooth 43 to the right subcondylar region, modified radical right cervical lymph node dissection, temporary tracheostomy, and reconstruction using a microvascularized osteomyocutaneous fibula graft. The pathological anatomy classifies the specimen as Keratinizing Squamous Carcinoma and involvement of 23 of the 35 lymph nodes removed with extracapsular invasion thereof, classifying it as pT2pN2b.

3.5 months after the surgical intervention, recurrence was observed after performing a new cervical CT due to the appearance of cervical tumors compatible with massive recurrence in the form of multiple bilateral lymphadenopathy. The possibility of performing a new cycle of chemotherapy is discussed but is ruled out due to the rapid massive recurrence, the lack of response to treatment and the patient's low level of tolerance to chemotherapy. The patient was referred for palliative care and died 6.5 months after surgery due to massive loco-regional recurrence.