Nine-year-old pediatric patient, with no clinical history of interest, who is referred to the Children's Maxillofacial Surgery Unit due to dental inclusion. The radiological study showed inclusion of the lower left canine, with a radiolucent area around 33, admitted for surgical correction, with a preoperative diagnosis of follicular cyst. The surgical treatment carried out consisted of the removal of the "follicular cyst" with curettage of the bone cavity and extraction of the included canine, with subsequent filling with "Bio-oss" bone, with the post-surgical evolution being satisfactory.
The surgical piece obtained through curettage included several irregular fragments of grayish color and low consistency that together measured 0.8 x 0.7 cm and a canine (0.9 x 0.5 cm) product of the extraction. The histological study showed an unaltered tooth structure, accompanied by fragments of fibrous tissue within which numerous solid nests of odontogenic epithelial elements arranged in compact micronodular formations with a swirling cellular arrangement could be seen. The elements that made up these structures were of basaloid morphology, with monomorphic, oval or fusiform nuclei, somewhat hyperchromatic, although without evidence of divisional activity. Mixed with these structures, glandular formations appeared, sometimes tubular in appearance, with a lining of cylindrical, homogeneous cells and nuclei often polarized towards their base. At the intercellular level and in a dispersed manner, small calcified basophilic spherules appeared as well as areas of irregular contour of amorphous and hyaline deposit, of PAS + diastase resistant character, positive to Congo Red although without green refraction being observed against polarized light. Given these data, the diagnosis of adenomatoid odontogenic tumor of the follicular type associated with retention of canine dental structure was issued.

Using the resected soft tissue material, an immunohistochemical study was carried out that first showed a reactivity of the proliferating elements, both in the nodular and adenomatoid areas, against the AE1-3 keratin cocktail. Likewise, nuclear positivity was observed for the p63 protein (marker of basal or progenitor cells), with this nuclear reactivity being present both in the glandular areas and in the swirling nests of spindle cells.

The proliferation marker Ki-67 marked only 2-3% of the cells that constitute the tumor lesion, with positivity often appearing grouped with some nodules of spindle cells. The detection of the melanin differentiation markers HMB45 and Melan-A was negative, as was that of the estrogen (ER) and progesterone hormone receptors (RPg) and beta-2-microglobulin.