A 42-year-old female patient, with no personal history of interest, was referred by her family doctor to the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery clinic of the Virgen de las Nieves University Hospital in Granada, due to multiple papillomatous lesions on her lip. superior of approximately fifteen years of evolution, according to the patient. In the intraoral examination of the patient, the presence of a scrotal-looking tongue can also be seen. Under local anesthesia and in two surgical stages, the lesions are completely excised. Their anatomopathological study typifies the lesions as fibropapillomas.

Due to the characteristic cobblestone appearance of the mucosal lesions, accompanied in the systemic examination by cutaneous trichilemmomas in acral regions, the long time of evolution of the same and the presence of a direct family history (mother died of thyroid neoplasia at 49 years of age with presence of the same type of lesions in the labial mucosa, sister with unrelated breast pathology and daughter undergoing surgery for papillary thyroid carcinoma) it was decided to refer the patient to the Gynecology Service for screening for neoplastic breast pathology, given the strong suspicion, among the differential diagnoses proposed, of finding ourselves facing Cowden syndrome.

In the Gynecology Service of our Hospital, the patient is diagnosed with bilateral fibrocystic breast pathology and grade GII infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the left breast, which requires tumorectomy plus ipsilateral axillary dissection and complementary treatment with postoperative chemo-radiotherapy. Given the clinical diagnosis of genodermatosis of multiple hamartomas (the patient has one pathognomonic lesion, one major criterion and three minor criteria), a complete process of systemic tumor screening begins.
The patient is evaluated in the Digestive Service, where the presence of asymptomatic polyps in the rectal and colonic mucosa is detected, requiring clinical follow-up; She was subsequently referred to the Endocrinology Service for evaluation of progressive thyroid enlargement associated with clinical hyperthyroidism. After ruling out malignancy through a cytohistological study, the patient underwent surgery by the Endocrine Surgery Service and underwent a total thyroidectomy. The conclusive pathological result diagnoses the lesion as a multinodular colloid goiter.
Five months after thyroid surgery and after performing a routine abdominopelvic ultrasound, a mass was detected in the right kidney, which after study with Computerized Tomography, presents radiological characteristics of malignancy. Referred to the Urology Service, she decided to perform right radical nephrectomy plus supracaval lymphadenectomy. The histological study of the surgical specimen diagnoses the lesion as clear and granular cell renal carcinoma with a fundamentally tubular component. It does not require complementary post-surgical treatments.
Currently, the patient presents a progressive decrease in visual acuity that is not being studied by the Ophthalmology Service.
All neoplastic processes diagnosed and treated were detected in initial stages. At the moment the patient is in complete remission of all the tumor pathology diagnosed and treated. Despite having a clear clinical diagnosis almost from the beginning, the patient has been studied at the National Cancer Research Center [Department of Human Genetics], definitively confirming that she is a carrier of the c1093lnaGGAT mutation in the PTEN gene, which confirms the genetic diagnosis of Cowden Syndrome. The study has been extended to the rest of the first-degree relatives to carry out adequate screening and initiate close clinical follow-up if necessary.