This is a 43-year-old man who presented with a palpable tumor, painful on pressure, in the right preauricular region. The physical examination revealed a poorly defined 2 cm mass in the right parotid area, with no other significant findings found. The patient does not report any personal or family history of interest, only the aforementioned nodule which, according to him, has been evolving for more than five years. The imaging tests performed, computed axial tomography and ultrasound, show a well-defined 2.5 x 2 cm tumor centered on the parotid, which does not affect bone or muscle structures, suggestive of a low-grade tumor.

Fine needle aspiration of the lesion is performed, using the routine 3-pass method with a 23G needle, and the help of the Cameco® (manual aspiration device), after which 2 slides are fixed in alcohol to be stained using the Papanicolaou and the rest (6 slides) are air dried to use the Diff-Quick stain. Examination of the smears shows, on a seroproteinaceous background, abundant large-sized cellularity, with central and occasionally peripheral, rounded nuclei, with an inconspicuous nucleolus and finely granular chromatin. The cytoplasm is very characteristic, being abundant, pale and foamy with imprecise edges, vacuolized and containing abundant violet granules. The cells are arranged in more or less compact groups of large two-dimensional sheets, sometimes adopting an acinar architectural pattern. Along with this predominant cellularity, smaller cells are also seen, with little cytoplasm and a small central rounded or oval nucleus. The cytological image was, therefore, consistent with serous-type acinar cell pathology, probably carcinoma, so it was proposed to perform DNA quantification by image cytometry on cytological smears. Since the smears obtained in the first puncture did not allow an adequate assessment, a second FNA was performed with the purpose of processing the material for cytometric determination. For this purpose, they were fixed in 99º methyl alcohol, and subsequently progressive hematoxylin staining was performed. Gill.

Using the TEXCAN® software and a video camera integrated into the microscope, which captures gray scales, the most relevant biological parameters are determined, among which ploidy, S phase, and percentage of cells above 5c stand out. (aneuploidy)The final result, expressed in the form of a histogram (IMAGE 2), reveals a euploidy of 2.1 without relevant S phase activity and absence of cells on 5c, therefore, indicating low aggressiveness (type 1 histogram) according to the Azúa classification for static cytometry.
With the cytological diagnosis of acinar cell carcinoma and the cytometric prognostic index of low grade, conservative surgical intervention was performed, with excision of the parotid gland without cervical dissection and preserving the facial nerve.
Macroscopically we find a whitish piece, with a polylobed morphology, weighing 12 grams and total measurements of 8 x 4 x 3 cm. The section reveals a 1.5 cm nodular lesion that does not overflow the surgical resection ends, apparently not cystic. Multiple parallel sections of the sample are made, which are embedded in paraffin and the sections are then stained with conventional hematoxylin-eosin. The histopathological study shows a solid, microcystic neoformation, well circumscribed, composed mainly of acinar cells that do not overflow the glandular capsule. The multiple very small cystic spaces, scattered between the solid sheets, are formed by dilated lumens lined by intercalated ductal cells, although acinar cells also occasionally participate. The acinar cells have serous secretion, as demonstrated by PAS (periodic acid Schiff) staining, which highlights intracytoplasmic zymogen granules as well as intracystic eosinophilic secretion. The neoplasia respects the resection ends and no vascular or nerve infiltration is evident.

The definitive diagnosis is, therefore, low-grade, well-defined Acinar Cell Carcinoma, without invasion of surgical ends.