59-year-old patient who reported difficulty walking for approximately one month. She presents weakness and pain in the lower limbs, which improves after stopping, sometimes accompanied by non-radiating low back pain. She has noticed changes in his voice, making it more dysphonic, which he relates to his work. In the anamnesis, she did not report weakness in the hands or upper extremities. She has no ocular, sphincter control or sensory disorders. No emotional lability was observed, although the patient already had an adjustment disorder after the death of his wife. He reports occasional cramps in his calves. As a personal history, he is hypertensive and type 2 diabetic. Family history: paternal uncle died with a diagnosis of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS).
On neurological examination he presents hypophonic speech, facial focus. Normal internal and external ocular motility. Lingual fasciculations. No cervical weakness. Motor: lower limbs (MMII): predominantly proximal paraparesis 4/5. Dorsiflexion of both feet 5/5. There was no weakness in the upper limbs. No sensory deficit. Osteotendinous reflex (OTR) +++/+++ with positive bilateral Hoffmann and indifferent right plantarcutaneous reflex, preserved left. Fasciculations in deltoids, pectorals and diffusely in MMII. Muscle atrophy in both quadriceps. General unremarkable examination.
Ankle-brachial index (ABI) was performed: right 1.18; left 1.29. Analysis is requested, which highlights CK of 232, immunological study and normal serology. Normal chest and lumbosacral x-ray. After suspicion of motor neuron disease, the Internal Medicine service was consulted, which requested an electromyogram (EMG) / electroneurography (ENG) suggestive of a neurogenic pattern with active denervation in both MMII, right upper limb (fibrillations and positive waves), compatible with motor neuron disease. motor neuron, probable ALS. With these results he was referred to Neurology.
After the patient was evaluated and diagnosed with probable ALS, according to the revised El Escorial criteria, and pending completion of a study with cranial-spinal magnetic resonance imaging and a new neurophysiological study, treatment was started with Riluzole 50 mg, one tablet every 12 hours.
Due to the clinical evolution of the patient with proximal paraparesis in MMII, with significant muscle atrophy of both thighs, dysphagia for solids, without involvement in the upper limbs (MMSS) and correlated with the latest neurophysiological study, another possible diagnosis was proposed, specifically a myopathy. . The EMG suggested myopathy with bulbar and pelvic girdle involvement (inclusion body myopathy), so a muscle biopsy was performed, the results being conclusive, ruling out the possibility of primary disease of the skeletal muscle and showing only changes secondary to denervation.
The patient subsequently presented progression of symptoms, showing weakness in the dorsiflexion of the left foot (4/5). Incipient atrophy at the level of the fifth interosseous space of the left hand. Diffuse fasciculations in different body segments, as well as mild aphonia.
Finally, the diagnosis of motor neuron disease, probable ALS, is suggested. Treatment is continued with Riluzole 50 mg. Speech therapy and physical and respiratory home rehabilitation are recommended.
Five months after the definitive diagnosis, the patient presented septic shock of urinary origin and subsequent complications, requiring invasive mechanical ventilation (tracheostomy), feeding by percutaneous gastrostomy (PEG) and secondary adaptation disorder, and was discharged home. Two months later she presented death.