A 79-year-old man presents with obesity, high blood pressure (HTN), type 2 diabetes mellitus, ischemic heart disease, AF, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and sleep apnea syndrome. He went to Primary Care for dizziness with a sensation of spinning objects, especially when he walked, which subsided at rest. He reports increased usual dyspnea. He has not presented loss of consciousness, chest pain, vomiting or cold sweats. He usually performs treatment with amlodipine, repaglinide, nitroglycerin (patches), acenocoumarol, atorvastatin, atenolol, acetylsalicylic acid, spironolactone, isophanic insulin protamine, paracetamol-tramadol and omeprazole, with good compliance.
During the physical examination, he highlighted the presence of arrhythmia on cardiac auscultation, with slow, dull tones, without murmurs. Radial pulses are present and symmetrical. Pulmonary auscultation shows generalized hypoventilation, without superimposed noises. The neurological examination is strictly normal. He presents with pitting edema up to the knees and signs of chronic venous insufficiency in the lower limbs. With a pulse oximeter we detected a heart rate of 30 beats per minute (bpm) and an oxygen saturation of 90%.
Given the patient's symptoms (dizziness with a sensation of spinning objects, without other additional symptoms) and the heart rate detected, it was decided to perform an ECG.

After evaluating the ECG, and given the patient's personal history (HTN, ischemic heart disease), we compared the recording obtained with a previous ECG, performed three years ago during an admission for an episode of COPD exacerbation.

Comparing both electrocardiographic records, it is confirmed that bradycardia did not appear and that the QRS complexes now appear rhythmic, but no P waves are seen, so based on the ECG obtained and the clinical findings, it was decided to refer the patient to the Hospital Emergency Service.
With the diagnosis of slow AF suspected, the negative chronotropic treatment was withdrawn, without improvement. Given the lack of response to this measure, admission to Cardiology was decided. After a complete study, a definitive diagnosis of AF with advanced atrioventricular block and symptomatic grade III right bundle branch block was reached, so a permanent pacemaker implantation was decided. The patient progresses favorably: the symptoms disappear and the heart rate is controlled.