Male patient referred in 2009 for control to the Bone Metabolic Unit (UMO) at the age of 36 and diagnosed in a private center with monostotic Paget's bone disease in the left radius. The patient provided a biopsy and scintigraphy report at the time performed in 2007. He was treated with risedronate at the dose used for osteoporosis. Upon confirming the good result in the levels of P1NP (amino-terminal propeptide of procollagen type 1), that same year, 2009, risedronate was suspended. From then until November 2014, he was periodically monitored with serum levels of bone remodeling markers, and was prescribed a new cycle of low-dose risedronate for a few months, when they increased. Also in that time interval, a scintigraphy was performed without finding significant alterations compared to the previous one. When the treatment was administered, the patient's local pain symptoms improved, but in November 2014 he spontaneously attended the consultation with his arm in a sling, reporting that two days ago he suffered a casual fall and presented intense pain in the area of ​​his left carpus. The physical examination revealed a hematoma on the back of the hand and distal third of the forearm, edema, effacement of the tendon grooves on the back of the hand, functional impotence of the wrist, and a local increase in temperature. Given the clinical suspicion of a fracture, he was referred from the Metabolic Unit to the Emergency Room where x-rays were performed; He was discharged with the diagnosis of contusion as no fracture was evident, but a large hyperostotic lesion was observed in the simple x-rays, which is why the patient returned to the UMO. Although the fracture was not visible on the x-rays, but there was clinical evidence of it, an urgent computed axial tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were requested for a deferred study of the hyperostotic lesion. The CT scan revealed a fracture in the hamate and trapezius bone. The limb was immobilized with a posterior splint. Once the trauma emergency was resolved, in subsequent days the radiological lesion of the radius was re-evaluated, identifying the so-called “molten wax sliding” sign. Given the possibility of presenting melorheostosis, this option was discussed with the Radiology and Nuclear Medicine services to undergo it. consideration. Finally, this was accepted as an alternative diagnosis to Paget's bone disease, being indistinguishable scintigraphically. Once the new diagnosis of melorheostosis was confirmed and agreed upon, we resumed the anamnesis, in which the story of a fall at 14 years of age while He practiced sports. The patient commented that he had suffered intense pain in the radius, but he did not go to any health center and hid it from his parents, since then he had a certain deformity. The pain subsided weeks after that fall. We deduce that the patient He fractured the radius and since the fracture was not immobilized or reduced, he was left with that deformity that can be seen in Figure 1, but which is not directly related to the hyperostosis. In addition to the striking central image, there are other areas of hyperostosis inside the distal end of the radius and in the proximal third.