We describe the case of a 47-year-old patient being followed up for psoriatic spondyloarthritis and fibromyalgia, being treated with leflunomide, celecoxib and gabapentin, with no history of interest and who maintains regular menstrual cycles. She did not report toxic habits and her body mass index (BMI) was normal. In a routine check-up, she reported pain in her feet and ankles, with no history of trauma, of a mechanical rhythm, which progressively increased until she became unable to walk, with modification of the static of her feet due to the pain. Her examination revealed swelling of the ankles and feet, with pain on pressure and bilateral pitting. She underwent an ultrasound in the office, which revealed very marked inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular tissue (SCT) without signs of synovitis or Doppler signal. She requested a foot X-ray, which showed no pathological findings. Due to significant TCS edema, the patient was referred to Angiology for evaluation. From this Service, a lymphography was requested which confirmed severe bilateral lymphatic insufficiency. When the symptoms of intense pain with claudication persisted, an MRI of the feet was indicated, which showed a fracture callus in the 3rd and 4th MTT in the right foot and edema in the 2nd MTT; and in the left foot a fracture line in the 1st MTT, and edema in the 3rd and 4th MTT and in the surrounding tissue. Given the MRI findings, the patient was evaluated by the Traumatology Service, indicating conservative treatment with unloading and rehabilitation (magnetotherapy). Due to the discovery of multiple stress fractures, a study was carried out in our clinics, performing analyzes with kidney function, serum and urinary calcium, ionic calcium, magnesium and PTH, which were normal. Only vitamin D was found to be 19.5 ng/ml, so treatment with supplements was indicated.

Evaluating the case of this patient as a whole, we considered, as a predisposing factor for the appearance of stress fractures, the significant alteration of the antalgic foot statics that she had developed due to the pain caused by the severe lymphatic insufficiency that she suffered.