A 60-year-old patient who went to the emergency room because, according to the family, when he woke up after 15 hours of sleep, he presented with disorientation, difficulty in articulating language, with preserved emission and comprehension, blurred vision and vertical double vision. She has not had loss of consciousness, palpitations, chest pain, or fever.
His background highlights that he is an ex-smoker for 15 years, hypertensive on treatment with enalapril and dyslipidemic on treatment with simvastatin.
The examination revealed paresis of the IV cranial nerve of the right eye, as well as incomplete involvement of the bilateral III nerve and VI right nerve, predominantly inferior, manifested in the form of vertical binocular diplopia. The rest of the cranial nerves are normal. There was also no associated motor or sensory deficit, Romberg negative, no dysmetries and no meningeal signs. Gait disturbance is evident with a tendency to lateropulsion to the right.
In addition to the basic emergency protocol, blood count, biochemistry, coagulation study, simple chest x-ray and electrocardiogram, which were normal, a 64-channel cranial computed tomography (CT) was performed before admission to the Neurology Service, which is reported as exploration without apparent pathological findings.

During admission, diplopia persists, which is corrected with alternating monocular occlusion, with instability and gait disorder persisting.
On the third day of admission, a brain MRI study with 1.5 T Philips resonance was completed, with the result of solitary microinfarcts in the deep white matter, as well as acute ischemic lesions located paramedially in both thalami and anterior midbrain, compatible with obstruction of the the artery of Percheron3. Flair sequences and the use of Diffusion are especially useful for observing these lesions.

After consulting the case with the Cardiology Service and, given the embolic origin of the condition, it was decided to start oral anticoagulation with Dabigatran due to the high risk of recurrence. The patient's evolution was favorable and, with the rehabilitation treatment, autonomy of walking was achieved; she presented progressive improvement in her diplopia.