A 63-year-old heterosexual man was admitted in November 2013 due to progressive dyspnea of ​​one month's duration that, upon arrival at the emergency room, was due to minimal effort. He was a smoker, cumulative index of 80 packs/year, drinker of about 80 grams. of alcohol a day, and had unprotected sexual relations with different partners. He did not report previous liver disease, nor was he aware that any member of his family had been diagnosed with porphyria. He did not take medication regularly.
A few months earlier he had consulted a dermatologist for a condition of facial erythema and peeling that was related to excessive photosensitivity; he was treated with sun protection creams.
Other data were added to the respiratory difficulty: he had a non-productive cough, he did not report fever, but upon admission his temperature was 38.5oC and it was estimated that he had lost about 20 kg of weight in the last 4 months. The patient appeared to be malnourished, he was eupneic with supplemental oxygen, his breath sounds were preserved, and he had no signs of heart failure. There was striking hyperpigmentation on the forehead, malar regions and nose with some small erosion and hypertrichosis; he had no other skin lesions. The chest x-ray showed a bilateral interstitial pattern. The anti-HIV antibodies were positive, the viral load was 257,580 copies/ml, the CD4 numbers were 28 cells/µL and the CD8 numbers were 262 cells/µL with a CD4/CD8 ratio of 0.11. Ziehl Neelsen stain of the sputum was negative. An adequate sample for direct immunofluorescence in sputum against pneumocystis jiroveci (PNJ) could not be obtained; however, empirical treatment against this fungus was initiated with the presumptive diagnosis of interstitial pneumonia due to PNJ. Dyspnea and the described radiological semiology improved. A determination of fractionated porphyrins in urine was performed in order to clarify facial erythroderma. An elevation in the excretion of porphyrins in 24-hour urine was detected, with an excretion pattern compatible with the diagnosis of PCT2.

Serologies for hepatitis B and C viruses were negative. The iron metabolism study showed normal transferrin values ​​and slightly elevated saturation index and serum iron; serum ferritin quantification turned out to be very high (1,928 ng/ml). The C282Y and H63D mutations of the hemochromatosis gene were negative. He was discharged with the diagnoses of HIV infection C3 (NPC interstitial pneumonia) and PCT. Treatment was started with Tenofovir, Emtricitabine and Darunavir and sun protection and alcohol abstinence were recommended.