A 65-year-old male patient diagnosed with OI following a study of a daughter who was also affected. He had no previous family history of the disease.

He reported a history of several fractures (approximately 6-7 in number) during childhood and adolescence after minimal trauma, the first of the humerus at 2 years of age. During adulthood he had had two new fractures in his elbow and shoulder. All had been treated conservatively. He received calcium treatment during childhood. He had also suffered multiple sprains and several muscle tears throughout his life. Diagnosed with otosclerosis, he had undergone surgery for stapedectomy of both ears.
He was referred to our clinic due to osteoporosis detected in bone densitometry (DXA), which showed T-scores of -3.4 in the lumbar spine (L1-L4), -3 in the femoral neck and -2.8 in the total femur. He was asymptomatic.
During the physical examination, attention was drawn to a height of 162 cm, blue scleras, and the presence of dentinogenesis imperfecta. He had no thoracic deformities, neither in the thoracolumbar spine nor in his limbs, except in the right elbow (post-fracture). No hypermobility was appreciated.
The calcium-phosphorus metabolism study showed normal levels of calcium, phosphorus, calciuria, and parathyroid hormone (iPTH). The levels of 25 hydroxyvitamin D (25OHCC) were in the insufficient range: 22 ng/ml (desirable values ​​>30 ng/ml). Bone remodeling markers were in the normal range. Other endocrine causes of osteoporosis were ruled out.
As part of our study protocol for patients affected by OI, an x-ray of the cervical spine was performed, which ruled out a basilar impression, and a chest x-ray in which degenerative changes in the spine were evident; The echocardiogram showed minimal dilation of the ascending aorta; The respiratory function tests were normal, and the abdominal ultrasound ruled out kidney stones.
A genetic study was carried out by massive sequencing by NGS (Next-Generation Sequencing) of the COL1A1, COL1A2, CRTAP and LEPRE1 genes, detecting a heterozygous deletion of a Guanine (c.3524delG) in the COL1A1 gene. This mutation gives rise to a change in the reading pattern, which, at the level of the collagen protein, causes a premature stop codon (p.Gly1175Valfs*64) so ​​it is likely to be a pathogenic change. Other changes were detected that were considered polymorphisms.
Treatment with weekly alendronate combined with daily calcium and vitamin D supplements was recommended, showing a slight densitometric improvement after 1 year of treatment (T-scores of -3.2 in the lumbar spine, -2.9 in the femoral neck and -2. 4 in total femur).