38-year-old male patient, evaluated in consultation for right coxalgia of a year and a half of evolution, with mechanical characteristics. He reports pain with physical exercise and slight limitation of mobility in certain postures. A mechanic by profession, in his free time he cycled (40 km a day on weekends), ran 3 times a week for 50 minutes and walked for an hour on the days he did not run. The pain has been increasing progressively, currently only walking.
The physical examination revealed pain on palpation in the middle third of the right inguinal region with pain on flexion, adduction and rotation, especially internal rotation (positive shock maneuver). The hip joint balance is bilateral 110o flexion, internal rotation of 10o right, 40o left and external rotation of 30o right, 40o left. The muscular balance on the Daniels scale is 5/5 overall bilaterally. He has no pain on palpation of sciatic points and the Valleix, Fabere, Lasegue and Bragard maneuvers are negative. He also has no pain on palpation in the iliotibial band and the Ober test is negative. In the gait examination we observed absence of claudication and alternating right-left single-leg support is stable, with negative Trendelenburg. He has pain when walking with forced flexion of the hip and knee. Simple anteroposterior (AP) radiology showed a hump-shaped deformity in the right femoral cervico-cephalic region. The laboratory tests requested with blood count, biochemistry, thyroid hormones, antibodies and acute phase reactants were normal.

Given these findings, a hip magnetic resonance imaging was requested, which showed slight subchondral alteration, with bone edema in the right hip, with cortical irregularity and slight synovitis in the joint line, with distension of the ilio-psoas bursa. The femoral head has a small bony island and the alpha angle is greater than 50o. Arthrography shows impingement of the antero-superior and postero-inferior joint interline, an incipient femoral osteophyte collar with small antero-superior subchondral lesions of the femoral head and small foci of edema in the antero-superior acetabulum. No avascular necrosis or lesions were seen in the labrum. A juxtaarticular cystic lesion is also visualized in relation to the greater trochanter.

With the diagnosis of femoroacetabular impingement syndrome type CAM (also known as CAM), the patient is prescribed treatment with magnetotherapy (15 sessions) to improve the pain symptoms and bone trophism. Pharmacological treatment is prescribed with an association of oral glucosamine sulfate-chondroitin sulfate 400 mg every 12 hours for 3 months and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs as needed if pain occurs. Sports rest is indicated to avoid shock to the joint, with controlled active physical activity, recommending not exceeding 90 degrees of hip flexion and avoiding rotations.
He was referred to the arthroscopy unit of the trauma service for evaluation of arthroscopic surgery.