A 33-year-old woman came to the emergency room with symptoms of asthenia, a history of unknown allergies, cutaneous lupus with malar erythema without treatment for 8 years and being followed up by rheumatology. Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Appendectomy. Ex-smoker for 7 years. Non-drinker. No toxic habits, except when drinking drinks with quinine (tonics). Episodes of anemia after 2 births. Cesarean section and tubal ligation in the 3rd.
Current illness:
Consultation due to intense asthenia and presyncope (lasting one week), which makes walking difficult, along with anorexia without weight loss. Very long-lasting (8 days) and abundant menstruation. No melenic stools, pale skin and mucosa. Epistaxis and gingivorrhagia.
The analysis highlights anemia with 6.7 gr/dl of hemoglobin, thrombopenia with platelets of 6,000/mm3. LDH 1696 IU/l. Blood smear with presence of schistocytes. Rest of normal examinations.
Diagnosis: According to clinical and laboratory data, the patient presents a picture compatible with TTP in the context of SLE.
Upon her admission, a concentrate of red blood cells and another of platelets are transfused. One hour after passing the platelets, the patient began to experience global aphasia and deviation of the oral commissure to the left without any other neurological focal point. She subsequently speaks with normal language without obvious focality.
Given the additional neurological symptoms, she was admitted to hematology for study.
When the patient presented with thrombotic microangiopathy and seizures, this service requested that we perform plasmapheresis. Due to the patient's clinical worsening, she is admitted to the ICU.
Plasmapheresis session plan:
The exchange volume should be between 1-1.5 times the plasma volume.
The treatment will last up to 48 hours. after getting the answer.
The patient weighs 75 kg, and according to relationship tables, a total of 3,500 cc corresponds to her. of volume to be reinfused, so it is programmed: 1,750 cc. of fresh plasma + 350 cc. 20% human albumin + 1,400 cc. Dianeal® 1.36% peritoneal dialysis solution.
Incidence of the sessions:
To perform the 1st plasmapheresis in the ICU, an attempt was made to implant a catheter in the right jugular, but due to its difficulty and excessive bleeding, a double lumen catheter was placed in the left femoral.
The monitor used for the technique was a PRISMA CRRT-TPE (Hospal®), with a PTE-2000 filter.
The dose of heparin was 15-5-5-5 mg, the duration of the sessions being about 210 minutes, with an average infusion of 980 ml/h, blood flows between 120-140 ml/min. and pressures of (PA. - 85 to -170 mmHg, and PV of 70 to 90 mmHg, maintaining a MTP between 25-55 mmHg).
The patient in the ICU presents a poor general condition (sedated), with constant constants. A total of 17 sessions were carried out.
Incidence thereof:
The 1st session was very hectic.
In the 5th and 6th, she suffered hypotension and significant seizures, which subsided with diazepam and physiological saline, ending the treatment.
In the 16th there is an increase in PTM up to 55 mm Hg with 50 minutes remaining, ending the session.
In the 17th, there is a failure of the air test with 90 minutes left, so the SET had to be changed.
The rest of the sessions were carried out without problems, being well tolerated by the patient.